---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------Centrica 2012

Thanks to the hard work and dedication of our people we again delivered a solid performance in 2012, making considerable progress towards our strategic goals despite operating in what has continued to be a challenging economic environment.

Review of 2012

In the UK, higher commodity and non-commodity costs alongside much colder weather compared to the very mild 2011, contributed to higher bills for our customers. We recognise the real challenges that this presents in an environment where disposable income is flat for many of our customers. Responding to this, although we were obliged to increase bills as a result of higher input prices, our increase was lower than all the other major suppliers. By contrast, gas prices have fallen and bills have reduced in North America, helping customer satisfaction rise for Direct Energy. Our efforts there have focused on expanding into new markets and integrating newly acquired businesses into our operations.

We invested more than ?2bn in 2012 to secure new sources of energy for the UK, across both gas and power. Sustained investment in energy projects makes a large contribution to the communities in which we operate: a study by the economic forecasting consultancy, Oxford Economics, calculated that Centrica¡¯s UK activities in 2012 supported 174,000 UK jobs and made a ?14.1bn contribution to the UK, equivalent to the size of the economy of Manchester.
 
We undertook all our activity with a clear focus on safety. There were no significant process safety events* in our oil, gas and power generation operations, and our overall lost time injury frequency rate declined for the sixth consecutive year, falling to 0.20* per 100,000 hours worked, beating our target of 0.225 for 2012. 

In 2012, we continued to support our most vulnerable customers and spent more than ?223m providing assistance such as free debt and payment assistance, discounted tariffs and energy and household grants to more than 2.1m* households. In North America, we continued to support bill payment assistance programmes for our customers in Texas and contributed more than $534,000 (?336,000) to the programme, assisting more than 2,600 customers.
 
Customer trust remains a top priority. The changes we have made in 2012 to improve our customers¡¯ experience have helped us achieve increases in customer satisfaction ? as measured by our Net Promoter Scores ? in both the UK and North America. British Gas took the lead in simplifying energy tariffs and we were awarded five stars by the consumer campaign group Which? for the clarity of our new energy bills that allow customers to ensure they are on the right tariff. We also improved our complaints processes by making it easier for customers to let us know if they have any concerns. Despite these improvements, the tough economic climate and concerns over rising fuel bills have damaged public trust in the energy industry in the UK, and in British Gas in particular, as the nation¡¯s largest energy supplier. We are highly aware of the work that remains to be done in this area. 

With energy costs increasing in the UK, keeping energy affordable is paramount as we seek to deliver value for our customers. Rising wholesale energy costs and levies to fund investment in low carbon programmes led to price increases in 2012, but a focus on cost management across our businesses meant British Gas was still able to offer the lowest tariff increase of the six major UK energy providers. In the US, where the proliferation of natural gas from shale has reduced wholesale energy prices, we focused on helping customers manage their energy costs through a number of initiatives, including time-of-use tariffs.

We recognise that this is a tough time for stretched household budgets. Our focus on helping customers cut their energy consumption has helped many to limit the impact of rising prices through measures such as loft and cavity wall insulation. British Gas was the first UK energy company to offer free insulation to all customers, and in 2012 insulated approximately 670,000 homes, which we estimate has had the same impact on CO2 emissions as replacing a coal-fired power station with low carbon generation. 

Throughout 2012, we introduced innovations that helped customers to better manage their energy use. In the UK, British Gas launched Remote Heating ControlTM, which enables customers to control their central heating from a smartphone via a broadband connection. Smart meters offer further opportunities for innovation, and British Gas continues to lead their deployment in the UK, having installed more than 800,000* in customers¡¯ homes and businesses by the end of 2012. In North America, smart meters, which have been fully rolled out in some of our markets, are enabling Direct Energy to provide customers with more flexible electricity plans. These are also helping our customers to cut energy costs and reduce carbon by lowering demand on the grid at peak times. 

Energy challenge

Consumers must have the energy they need to power and heat their homes and businesses. This energy must be affordable and those who struggle to pay may need support. On top of this, society must move towards a low carbon future. 

Being a responsible energy company is about balancing these three, often conflicting, demands: what we call the energy trilemma. Centrica has a vital role to play in this. 

Increasing supplies of gas will help us offer affordable energy. Through our exploration, production and trading capabilities, we are securing the gas our customers need, helping to achieve energy security. And we are contributing towards a low carbon future by applying our expertise in energy efficiency and smart energy management to help our customers reduce their energy consumption, as well as working to minimise the impact from our upstream generation activities.

The future landscape

The energy challenge changes as the energy landscape shifts. The UK now imports the majority of its gas, and while residential gas consumption is declining year-on-year due to energy efficiency programmes, the dependence on this form of energy will continue for many years ahead. Gas heats more than 80% of UK homes at half the cost of electricity, and contributes more overall energy than other fuels combined when industrial processes are included. In North America, an increasingly abundant and reliable supply of natural gas from shale creates potential for the region to export gas to the rest of the world including the UK. 

Renewable energy such as offshore wind offers good alternatives for meeting low carbon targets. However, costs have not decreased to the levels many hoped they would and projects continue to get larger and more complex. Combined with regulatory uncertainty and financial constraints, the reality with renewable generation is a much different one than we were looking at three years ago. While renewable power will fill some of the gaps left by the closure of coal-fired power stations in the UK over the next decade, gas-fired power generation will become an increasingly important part of the fuel mix.

We must evolve with the changing energy landscape if we are to be a sustainable company able to address the challenges of the energy trilemma. Therefore, in February 2013 we refreshed our corporate strategy, setting out three key aims:

- Innovating to drive growth and service excellence
- Integrating our natural gas business, linked to our core markets
- Increasing our returns through efficiency and capital discipline

You can find out more about the strategy in our 2012 Annual Report and Accounts.

We are now reviewing and adapting our corporate responsibility approach to further strengthen our new strategic framework¡¯s ability to balance the demands of the energy trilemma.

We will update you on our new corporate responsibility strategy in the coming months via our website and social media. I welcome your thoughts. Please get in touch at responsibility@centrica.com 

---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------Centrica 2013

At end of 2013, the UK was witness to the most heated political debate about energy since privatisation. Customers are struggling with their energy costs as household incomes remain under pressure and the UK recovers from the worst recession in decades. At the same time, higher wholesale commodity prices, transportation charges and environmental and social obligations are increasing the cost of energy. The debate has further eroded trust in the energy sector.

Energy prices are understandably a key concern, and we are working hard to keep energy affordable. Affordability, though, must be addressed alongside other pressing matters. Energy security is essential because the UK is no longer energy independent and needs to secure its energy supplies by competing on the global market. Climate change is a real threat and must be mitigated by staying on course to meet the UK¡¯s carbon targets. The intense scrutiny faced by the energy sector hinges on the interaction of these issues. Balancing these priorities is at the heart of what we do and can impact our ability to earn the trust of our stakeholders.
 
Working to make energy affordable 

We took steps in 2013 to limit the impact of rising costs on our customers. Higher consumption as a result of a cold winter in late 2012 and early 2013 allowed us to shield our customers from increases in wholesale energy costs but by October 2013, we unfortunately had to raise residential energy prices by an average of 9.2% to remain profitable. However, with changes the UK Government proposed to the Energy Company Obligation (ECO), we were able to be the first supplier to reduce prices for all customers by an average of 3.2%, effective from 1 January 2014. Including the ?12 rebate relating to the Government¡¯s Warm Home Discount, the average customer bill reduced by ?53, or 4.1%. 

The need to increase prices was driven by factors largely external to the company. Our post-tax profit margin for British Gas Residential made up less than 5% of the bill last year ? a level we feel is fair considering the commodity and weather risks we take. It is essential Centrica makes a reasonable profit enabling us to secure the gas and electricity supplies our customers need. 

Installing insulation and other energy efficiency measures is an important part of our efforts to help customers manage energy costs. We installed more than 236,000 energy efficiency measures in 2013 to our customers¡¯ homes in the UK. A third of these installations were for the elderly, disabled or those on low incomes, and will help them save more than ?950m in heating costs over the lifetime of those measures. Overall, we supported more than 1.8m* vulnerable households in the UK as well as helping customers in Texas through the bill assistance programme, Neighbor-to-Neighbor. 

Helping to reduce carbon emissions 

We are committed to supporting UK carbon reduction targets and believe energy efficiency is vital to cut emissions. Reducing our customers¡¯ energy consumption decreases carbon produced in homes and means burning fewer fossil fuels to generate electricity. Since 2010, the measures we have installed in UK homes and businesses have saved a total of over 9.8m tonnes of CO2e, equivalent to taking more than 668,000 cars off the road. 

However, only a fraction of savings available through greater energy efficiency has yet been realised. The UK needs to pursue cost-effective energy efficiency measures with greater urgency and zeal. 

Putting people in control of their energy use can also help them manage consumption, leading to lower costs and carbon emissions. We are leading the rollout of smart meters, having installed nearly 1.3m in UK homes and business by the end of 2013. In a survey of our customers with smart meters, nine out of 10 are now taking simple steps to reduce energy use in the home. We have also introduced new products and services such as remote heating control and time-of-use plans. For example, customers using our ¡®Free Power Saturdays¡¯ offering in North America can save approximately 16% on their energy bills on average, while easing strain on the grid and reducing emissions from peaking power plants. 

With our focus on gas, nuclear and renewables, we have one of the lowest carbon intensities of the major UK energy generators. We completed our Lincs offshore windfarm in 2013 which is capable of producing enough energy for more than 200,000 homes. However, to enable us to make further long-term investments in large scale offshore wind and renewables, the UK needs political consensus and legal and regulatory certainty concerning the investment and return framework. 

Securing energy supplies 

Alongside affordability and decarbonisation, we continue our work to secure energy supplies. We focus on gas because we believe it delivers on all three priorities. Gas is transportable and remains widely available, enabling us to secure future supplies and bring them to the UK at affordable prices. Gas also has the lowest carbon intensity of fossil fuels, and because of its flexibility, plays an important backup role to renewable power in a low carbon future. 

Centrica has continued to make good progress in accessing new markets and securing new sources of gas in 2013. Our total commitments to purchase gas and power for our customers is now more than ?60bn. We have also taken a 25% non-operating stake in the Bowland shale exploration licence in Lancashire in the UK, which could be a valuable addition to the UK¡¯s future supply mix. We are confident that natural gas from shale can be extracted safely. We place a high priority on sensitively managing the potential local community and environmental impact whilst we explore such opportunities. 

Earning trust 

As the UK¡¯s largest energy supplier we recognise the responsibility we have to help keep people¡¯s homes and businesses warm and well lit. We must do this in a way that earns the trust of our customers and the wider stakeholder community. Despite our efforts, we, and the industry as a whole, have not been successful in doing this. Trust in the energy sector is at a low level, amplified by political positioning which has led the important debate about balancing affordability, climate change and energy security to be side-lined. 

We want to earn the trust of our customers and other stakeholders and we know we must work even harder to achieve this through action, not words. That is why we introduced Tariff Check to help all our customers determine whether they are on the best deal, announced our plans to stop auto-renewal of contracts for business customers, and are committed to delivering best in class service levels. It is also why I welcome the competition assessment of the UK energy sector being conducted by Ofgem, the Office of Fair Trading and the Competition and Markets Authority, and why British Gas has embraced Ofgem¡¯s Standards of Conduct and is making fundamental reforms such as setting up our independent Customer Fairness Committee (see page 8). 

Our approach to corporate responsibility 

I am convinced that the way we do business is critical to earning the trust we have lost. Our approach to corporate responsibility reinforces our focus on how we do business through four core themes which shape our organisational behaviour (see graphic). It supports our strategic priorities and gives our businesses as well as our people a clear framework for how to operate responsibly. 

The four themes of our approach are treating customers fairly, safeguarding the environment, caring for our people and communities, and working with our partners. 

In practice, this approach means providing products and services that customers think are fair and striving to treat them in a way that will gain their respect and trust. It ensures we work to extract gas or build energy infrastructure in a way that protects the local environment. It reinforces our drive to develop our people while treating their safety as paramount. It compels us to engage with communities around our operations to manage our impacts and optimise our positive contribution. And finally, it emphasises our belief that while we have an important role to play, we need to work together with partners in industry, NGOs and other stakeholders to deliver effective solutions to energy challenges. 

Centrica has performed strongly in taking a responsible approach during 2013, despite a challenging environment. We have more to do to gain the respect of our stakeholders and achieve the right balance between affordability, reducing carbon emissions and securing energy supplies. I am confident that by focusing on how we do business and through the continued hard work and dedication of our people, we can earn the trust we need to deliver our strategy and achieve our purpose to help people today and to secure energy for tomorrow.

---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------Centrica 2014

2014 was a challenging year for the energy industry. Public trust in our sector continues to be low. We are a customer-facing company, and we must serve our customers competitively and with integrity. Safety, compliance and our conduct ? the way in which we go about our business ? is front of mind for everyone in the company. 

Concerns about pricing and competition remained in the spotlight throughout the year. The Competition and Markets Authority launched an investigation into the energy market in the UK. I believe the energy market is competitive but it is beneficial to have a full analysis to help restore consumer trust.

Across our company, we will work to rebuild trust by helping people today and securing energy for tomorrow. That means helping our customers, supporting our people and communities, while delivering reliable and competitive future energy supplies and services, in a safe and responsible way. 

Helping people today 

The safety of our people, customers and communities is my highest priority. As a company, we have robust safety systems in place and I am committed to equipping our people with the skills and tools to keep themselves, each other and our customers safe. Our rate of total recordable injuries improved by 34% in 2014, to 0.50 per 100,000 hours worked compared with 0.76 in 2013. However, our lost time injury frequency rate increased by 27% to 0.14 per 100,000 hours, up from 0.11 in 2013. This was mainly due to improved rigour in reporting. 

We are listening to our customers and focusing on delivering a strong service at competitive prices. We know we have further to go to improve customer service and we are committed to ensuring we have the right capabilities and systems to do this. Since 2009, we have invested over ?230m to upgrade our customer service systems in the UK. We are developing new ways for our customers to interact with energy through innovative technologies, such as Hive Active HeatingTM, which gives households greater control over their heating and energy bills. For customers who struggle to pay for energy, we provide energy assistance and financial support. In 2014, we helped nearly 1.8m vulnerable customers in the UK. 

We also bring benefits to our local communities throughout the UK, North America and Republic of Ireland. For example, during the five-year construction of our Cygnus North Sea gas project, 4,820 skilled jobs will be created and we expect it to contribute ?1.3bn to the UK economy.

Securing energy for tomorrow 

As well as directly serving customers and communities, we play a vital role in securing the energy they need. One of Centrica¡¯s strengths comes from its diverse energy portfolio. We cover oil and gas exploration and production, power generation, gas storage and energy trading. We are able to manage weather, commodity and market risk for our customers, so they can have secure and reliable energy supplies. We must also secure energy in a way that is efficient and competitive, and which minimises adverse social and environmental impacts. 

In addition to fulfilling an important role today, I also believe Centrica is well positioned for the future. We have a focus on gas, which will continue to be an important part of the energy mix in the coming decades. It is cheaper than any other energy source apart from coal, is more reliable than wind and is the lowest carbon fossil fuel. This focus, alongside investments in energy efficiency, low carbon nuclear and renewables and our leadership in the installation of smart meters, means we are well placed to be at the forefront of the longer term trends in the global energy market and the transition to a lower carbon economy. In so doing, we are capable of supplying and serving the needs of our customers and other stakeholders. 

Looking ahead 

It is my belief that Centrica has a vital role in society; what we do is central to people¡¯s energy needs. But I know there is more to be done. Our priorities are safety, compliance and conduct, serving our customers competitively and with integrity, developing new offers and services while providing secure and reliable energy supplies. We are undertaking a strategic review, which will report back in the summer, to ensure Centrica is on the best footing to fulfil these priorities for the long term.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Endesa 2004

L E T T E R   F R O M   T H E   C H A I R M A N 
A N D   T H E   C H I E F   E X E C U T I V E   O F F I C E R 

In publishing our 2004 Sustainability Report, we are once again fulfilling our commitment to report on ENDESA's actions in the field of sustainable development over the past year.

For the fourth year running, the Company is giving public account of these actions in a Report focused exclusively on this area. This Report, which will be distributed as part of the set of documents furnished to shareholders at the ENDESA Annual General Meeting, is a testament of our readiness not only to maintain total transparency of information  in respect of all interested parties but also of our conviction that the Company's commitment to sustainable development is a significant contributor to the creation of value for our shareholders who have placed their trust in us, and also to the provision of a quality customer service, to the professional and personal development of our employees, to the forging of relationships of trust and cooperation with our contractors and suppliers and, lastly, to the development and wellbeing of the communities in which we operate.

This Sustainability Report has once again been drawn up in conformance with the 2002 guidelines of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) and thus provides a balanced and fair view of the economic, environmental, and social activities of our Company.

In early 2004, coincident with the publication of our 2003 Annual Report, ENDESA published its Seven Commitments for Sustainable Development,  a document  that sets out its sustainability  policy and its commitments to its customers, its shareholders, the communities in which it operates, to ethical conduct, to innovation, and to the environment. Fulfilling these commitments is the responsibility of all who work for the Company and is a goal that we unstintingly strive to incorporate in our daily work.

The information provided in the following pages is structured to reflect the actions and initiatives undertaken by the Company in the course of 2004 in concrete response to each one of these seven commitments and in demonstration of how its commitment to sustainability has been applied in real and practical terms in the execution of its activities.

Throughout the year, ENDESA has furthered its commitment to providing quality customer services, significantly increasing its investments in distribution facilities, reinforcing its sales channels and services, and striving to deal fairly with customer enquiries and complaints, as a result of which it has achieved quite significant advances in indicators of customer service quality and continuity of supply.

The Company has also achieved highly satisfactory financial results for its shareholders, posting net income in all its businesses, generating wide margins, and demonstrating a high degree of compliance with the strategy communicated to the markets. The Company has also stepped up its activities in the area of health and occupational risk prevention and has launched a number of initiatives designed to promote the professional development of its employees and to take their 

opinions and expectations into account. As regards  ethical  conduct,  ENDESA remains one of the Spanish companies most committed to application of the principles of transparency and good corporate governance, an area in which this year once again it achieved significant public recognition.

On the environmental  protection front, 2004 saw a number of regulatory decisions on climate change and the Kyoto Protocol, among which we would highlight  the approval of the National Allocation Plan for Emission Rights. In this field, we believe that ENDEA has once again demonstrated its sense of responsibility, taking a determined approach to the challenge that compliance with the Kyoto objectives represents, in a manner consistent with the need to guarantee a safe and continuous supply of electricity, at costs acceptable to the country, and using a suitably diverse range of energy sources.

Since 1990  ENDESA has reduced its emissions by more than any other Spanish electric utility and has constantly sought to share best practice in environmental matters with its investees throughout the world.  As a result,  ENDESA became the first Spanish company to submit and receive approval for a Clean Development  Mechanism (CDM) project, one of the flexibility  mechanisms created by the Kyoto Protocol.

2004 was also a particularly important year for the Company in the area of energy efficiency, since it laid the foundations for the major drive now under way in the field of innovation and technology with the design of an I&T Program having as its priority  focuses quality of service, energy efficiency, growth  in facilities,  products and services, and environmental activities ? all areas clearly associated with the principles of sustainable development.

Also in 2004,  ENDESA once again distinguished itself for its endeavors to contribute to the social, economic, and cultural development of the countries and communities in which it operates. Its work in this area is one of the key features of its corporate  track record. The resources it has allocated to this field, whilst remaining proportionate to its scale and its profits, have for another year running enabled the Company to make significant investments in social responsibility initiatives, placing ENDESA amongst the Spanish companies most active in and most committed to this area, by undertaking  actions closely related to the activities it knows best and attuned to the needs of the beneficiary populations.

Meanwhile, ENDESA also maintained its commitment to implementing and promoting the ten principles of the United Nations Global Pact, launching a large number of initiatives promoting awareness and adoption of the principles, aimed mainly at its shareholders, employees, customers, suppliers, and contractors, and ensuring that its investees subscribe directly to the principles of the Pact and actively participate in the national platforms supporting the Pact in the countries in which they operate.

Overall, the initiatives undertaken by the Company in 2004 represent a further advance towards fulfillment of its commitments for sustainable development, with each of the seven areas being given equal importance and no single area being prioritized or neglected for opportunistic reasons.

Accordingly, we can affirm that ENDESA continues to move in the right direction, underpinned by its integrated approach to sustainability, which is clearly attuned with the criteria generally accepted at international level and unquestionably linked to the mission, vision, and values that the Company has publicly assumed.

Rafael Miranda Robredo
Chief Executive Officer

Manuel Pizarro Moreno
Chairman

---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Endesa 2005

LETTER FROM THE CHAIRMAN
AND CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER

With this Report, for the fifth consecutive year ENDESA wishes  to publicly announce the most significant progress made and actions carried out over the last year in the ambit of sustainable development.

By publishing this Report, ENDESA shows not only its willingness to furnish this information transparently and responsibly, but also our firm belief that a company¡¯s sustainable behaviour contributes towards creating value for the investors who have placed their confidence in the firm, providing a high-quality  service to its customers, fostering the professional and personal development of its employees, establishing relationships founded on collaboration and confidence with contractors and suppliers, and contributing towards the development and welfare of the social environments in which it operates.

As in previous editions, this year¡¯s ENDESA Sustainability Report aims to identify and respond to the interest shown in the Company¡¯s business behaviour by the key stakeholders and communities with which we are associated. Also as in previous editions, the Report has been prepared in accordance with the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) 2002 Guide to provide an accurate, balanced and reasonable image of ENDESA¡¯s sustainability efforts to address economic, environmental  and social issues.

ENDESA is Spain¡¯s largest electricity company, one of the five largest in Europe and the leading private electricity company in Latin America.  As a Company we are committed to sustainable development, which at ENDESA is a concept to which we take a dual approach:  the efficient use of resources and the creation of wealth and welfare for society as a whole.

The information  presented in this publication is structured in accordance with the principles of the Company¡¯s sustainability policy. This policy has been shaped by the Seven Commitments to Sustainable Development that were approved and published by ENDESA in 2003 and constitute the guide and basis for our sustainable behaviour. Commitments that call for everyone working at the Company to comply with them and build them into our daily working lives.

The content  of this Sustainability Report 2005 has been organised to follow the structure and order of these seven commitments, covering, after an initial introductory chapter setting out ENDESA¡¯s strategic sustainable-development  aspirations and goals, the key actions and initiatives that the Company has undertaken in 2005 for our customers, our shareholders, our employees, the social environments in which we operate, ethical behaviour, innovation and the environment.

ENDESA¡¯s key specific actions in this area are contained in our Strategic Environment and Sustainable Development Plan 2003-2007. This Plan, which reflects our commitment to act responsibly, efficiently and competitively, contains that Company¡¯s areas of action for each of the seven commitments described above, with a view to maintaining long-term relationships with stakeholders that are founded on confidence for our mutual benefit. Although only the half-way  stage, the Plan has already achieved 70% compliance, and so will be reviewed in 2006 in order to extend and update its content.

The most significant data and facts related to the development of the seven commitments to sustainability in 2005 include, for our customers¡¯ benefit, a total investment of ¢æ1,779 million in electricity transport and distribution facilities in the countries in which we operate.  This brings the total investment of this type over the last four years to over ¢æ5,100 million.

In Spain, investment and other operational and technological progress made in the distribution business, within the framework of the Company¡¯s Quality Plan, enabled the quality of service to be improved by 23% in 2005. As a result, the SAIDI (¡°system average interruption duration index¡±, the standard indicator to express the total interruptions in supply) stood at 2 hours and 14 minutes over 2005 as a whole ? in other words, 99.97% availability of service. In Latin America, an improvement of 8.4% in the average annual interruption time per customer was achieved in 2005.

For our shareholders, ENDESA has maintained its firm commitment to creating value, giving maximum priority to providing a high return on investment when developing the current Strategic Plan, which was presented to the markets in October 2005 via the document ENDESA: Stronger Businesst; Greater Value. In line with this commitment, the Company¡¯s net profit in 2005 was the largest in its history, reaching ¢æ3,182 million, with year-on-year growth of 154%. Also, the Company¡¯s shares were revalued by 32.8% on the Spanish Stock Market in 2005, which is a considerably higher figure than the IBEX 35 revaluation of 18.2%.

With regard to ENDESA¡¯s commitment to the health, safety and personal and professional development of its employees, there has been a significant reduction in the accident rate for own workers in 2005, falling by 14.2%. Also this year, the Strategic Plan for Preventing Workplace Accidents 2005-2009  (Plan Praevenio) was approved and launched in Spain and Portugal. An awareness-building plan to reduce workplace accidents among the Company¡¯s suppliers and contractors was also approved. Among other topics, this plan, to be launched in 2006, covers the setting-up  and use of worker-safety targets, company self-diagnosis and the drafting of action plans based on self-diagnosis.

In the sphere of ethics, in ENDESA launched its Ethics Channel, which allows all personnel of the Company and its subsidiaries to report any improper or inappropriate behaviour via an external independent channel, guaranteeing the confidentiality of these communications and the anonymity of those using this channel. With this Ethics Channel, the Company has further consolidated its role as a driving force for ethical behaviour and transparency in all the ambits and areas of business in which ENDESA operates.

In 2005 ENDESA has continued to improve its environment  record. In Spain and Portugal, our specific CO2 emissions fell by 22.7% between 1990 and 2005. If we consider that over this same period our electricity production almost doubled (a 94.5% increase), the high rate of environmental efficiency achieved by the Company over this period is plain to see. This result reflects the Company¡¯s firm commitment to using clean fuel technologies, developing renewable-energy facilities and increasing the energy efficiency of our power stations.

Also of considerable importance is the Biodiversity Conservation Programme devised and approved by ENDESA as part of the Strategic Environment and Sustainable Development Plan. This programme contributes towards valuing our natural heritage and acts as the environmental framework of reference for the development of new projects, in line with our Sustainability Policy, with a view to playing our part to safeguard the natural environments of the territories in which are present.

A key role was played in the improved efficiency mentioned above by the firm push that ENDESA has given in recent years to making new strides in technological innovation, not only in our direct activities with our own resources but also in partnership  with a large number of companies,  research centres and scientific institutions. The Company has also encouraged employees to participate in innovation processes via the in-house Novare Programme. This programme, which is targeted at the scientific community of the countries where we operate, has also been opened up to ENDESA¡¯s employees and those of the companies in which we hold a stake, to gather new ideas in this field and reward the best of them with prizes and public recognition within the Company.

We should also mention here the investment made  by ENDESA in 2005 to contribute towards the social, economic and cultural development of the communities in which we operate.  This investment, which totalled ¢æ25.4 million, funded actions aimed at covering basic social needs, driving the communities¡¯ economic development, education and culture.

A further example of ENDESA¡¯s social commitment and that of the companies in which we hold a stake is our having joined the United Nations Global Pact. The Company has undertaken to adopt, support and promote the principles of the Pact and integrate  them into strategies, policies

and our day-to-day business activities. Two milestones were achieved in 2005 in this respect: all our subsidiaries are now formally and directly included in this initiative, and a guide was drafted to facilitate the homogeneous, integrated development and implementation of the Global Pact principles within the company and our subsidiaries, to smooth the way for the incorporation of the ten principles of the Global Pact into all our action plans.

In short, throughout 2005 the Company has continued its progress along the sustainability path, which began several years ago and has positioned ENDESA among the companies that receive the most international recognition by independent organisations working in this field. The results achieved and the high level of compliance with the Strategic Environment and Sustainable Development  Plan 2003-2007 provide a firm base from which to continue strengthening this commitment for the future, in a way that is consistent with the Company¡¯s international  relevance in the electricity sector and with a firm commitment towards the communities in which we are present.
Rafael Miranda Robredo
Chief Executive Officer

Manuel Pizarro Moreno
Chairman

---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Endesa 2006

LETTER
FROM THE CHAIRMAN AND CEO

For the sixth consecutive year, through its Sustainability Report, ENDESA provides its interest groups with a detailed analysis of the activities undertaken in the past year concerning sustainable development.

On balance we can see some very significant advances and results in all areas of sustainability, especially our Company¡¯s global and balanced perception. This is based on ENDESA¡¯s conviction that it must meet the needs and expectations of its interest groups regarding its sustainable responsibilities, especially those groups who have close ties with the development of its businesses. Therefore, ENDESA¡¯s main commitments are to provide its customers with a safe and high-quality electricity supply, to provide a return to those shareholders who have placed their faith in the Company, to foster the professional development of its employees as well as guarantee their health and safety and to create wealth in the communities where it operates. This involves embracing ini- tiatives which will preserve our natural resources and ensure they are used efficiently. It is therefore essential to invest substantially in technological innovation.

This global and balanced perception of sustainability is borne out by the Seven Commitments for Sustainable Development which ENDESA announced in 2003. These provide a guide to our corporate conduct and prin- ciples which we in turn demand of all our employees in turn for our remuneration system and by applying the Company¡¯s Corporate Integrity Rules.

Given the function these principles have regarding its corporate conduct, ENDESA believes that the best way to convey its sustainability pledge to its interest groups is to structure this Report in a manner which is consis- tent with these commitments and to include all the activities carried out in 2006 to ensure compliance with them.

Also, in an extensive introduction to this report , ENDESA details all the information regarding the scale and nature of its businesses and how it manages sustainability issues. In the Appendices, readers can find infor- mation regarding contact channels, the location of compliance indicators, etc.

Finally, in order to identify and address the concerns of our main interest groups, this Report has been drawn up in accordance with the G3 Guidelines from the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) and conveys a precise, clear, reliable, balanced and benchmark overview of ENDESA¡¯s work towards ensuring Sustainability. Moreover, an external, independent company has verified ENDESA¡¯s commitment to complying with the GRI indicators, Accountability principles and the Global Compact as well as our commitment to OECD principles and the United Nations¡¯ Millennium Project.

The following pages detail the advances made in 2006. Of these we would highlight the 14.2% improvement in the quality of supply in Spain, the best in the Company¡¯s history, the investment of Euro 1,901 million in dis- tribution facilities in Spain and Latin America and the total shareholder return of 72.1% for the year as well as the 20.6% improvement in accident rates for all of ENDESA¡¯s businesses. We would also include the adaptation in Spain to the requirements of the Unified Code of Good Governance and management of the Ethics Channel which interest groups can access via the Company¡¯s website; the Euro 31 million invested in social develop- ment, representing 1.04% of its 2006 net profit; the various pursued by ENDESA both at home and abroad regarding climate change which saw the Company ranked among the best companies in the KDL Global Cli- mate as well as the 100% certification of its generation and distribution business in Latin America according to ISO 14001. Also worth a mention are the increased R&D projects in Spain, ENDESA¡¯s position at the helm of two important national Strategic Consortiums for Technical Research (CENIT) and the certification awarded by AENOR to its RDI management model in compliance with the UNE 166002 standard.

These and other initiatives have been decisive in ENDESA obtaining the best evaluation of the electricity sector worldwide in 2006 from the prestigious Dow Jones Sustainability World Index (DJSI World) and for 98% of its projects which have either been concluded or are nearing termination being included in the 2006 Annual Sus- tainable Development Action Plan 2006 (PADS). We should also include the Company¡¯s active role in meeting and disseminating the 10 universal principles contained in the United Nations¡¯ Global Compact. ENDESA and its investees are committed to continuing to support and propagate these principles which fall within its juris- diction.

However, these successes and acknowledgements will in no way lead to complacence on our behalf. ENDESA is conscious that it is meeting social needs which are constantly increasing as well as expectations regarding sustainable development of its various interest groups. Therefore, having successfully concluded 80% of the initiatives contained in our 2003-2007 Strategic Plan for the Environment and Sustainable Development, at the beginning of this year the Company began drawing up its 2008-2012 Strategic Sustainability Plan to identify the initiatives to be undertaken during this period in order to remain one of the world¡¯s leading companies in terms of corporate sustainability.

Finally, it is important to stress that, in 2006 we beat the targets set down in the 2005-2009 Strategic Plan and amply fulfilled its key aims: namely to develop our businesses taking advantage of growth in the markets where we operate and to defend our shareholders¡¯ interests, providing them a high return on their investment.

It is important to highlight these accomplishments which have involved everyone who works for the Company as they have been met against the backdrop of various take-over bids launched for the Company. Throughout this process, ENDESA has endeavoured to defend its shareholders¡¯ interests and their right to decide on the Company¡¯s future. Also of paramount importance is our industrial project and the interests of our employees. At the same time, the Company has not only proven its ability to run its businesses normally, but has also obtai- ned excellent results by taking advantage of the opportunities which have arisen in the markets where it ope- rates. It has maintained the highest investment commitment in the Spanish electricity sector and set an exam- ple of good corporate governance and sustainable development on a worldwide scale.

These criteria, which the Company has had to expound on numerous occasions throughout the take-over pro- cess and which have been expressed in strict adherence to the law and corporate bylaws, will be upheld in the future because the interests of our shareholders, customers, employees and suppliers demand it as do the communities in which ENDESA is present.

Rafael Miranda Robredo                                               Manuel Pizarro Moreno
Chief Executive Officer                                                                        Chairman

---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Endesa 2007

For the seventh consecutive year, ENDESA¡¯s Annual Sustainability Report provides its stakeholders with a detailed analysis of our sus- tainable development initiatives of the last year.
In my view, we should highlight three very important aspects: Firstly, there has been a notable increase in the company¡¯s sustainability initiatives. When ENDESA approved its Seven Commit- ments for Sustainable Development in 2007, it was a clear public declaration of certain business principles of conduct, which the com- pany had already followed for many years. The public nature of these commitments and their adoption by everyone who works for the com- pany, gave a new boost to our sustainability efforts, and will mean a significant increase in our initiatives in this field in the coming years. In this context, certain milestones reached in 2007, which are discussed in full detail in this report, are particularly illustrative. In Spain we obtained the highest level of service continuity in the his- tory of ENDESA and a customer satisfaction quotient for our electric- ity provisioning services of eight out of ten. In addition, we invested Euro 4,746 millions, of which 90% was allocated to energy infra- structure. We also cut our accident rates by 21.7% and spent 1.8 million hours on employee training, while maintaining the efficiency of our Ethics Channel. Furthermore, ENDESA cut its CO2 emissions by 36.5%, with respect to the company¡¯s emission levels in 1990.
Meanwhile, we continued our research into CO2 capture and storage systems, and developed a Global Energy Efficiency Plan, and lastly, Euro 39.2 millions was invested in social initiatives, which represents 1.5% of the total earnings for the year.
These and other data contained in this report give continuity to our widely respected commitment to  sustainable development. In recent years, ENDESA has been rated one of the world¡¯s leading companies with  regard to sustainability by important entities such as the Dow Jones Sustainability Index, where it has been ranked  for the past seven years. In two of those years it was the leader in sustainable development in its sector. We would underline that the companies which compose the Dow Jones Sustainability Index must demonstrate expertise in all aspects of sustainability.
A second relevant item is the significant improvement in the report- ing of our sustainable development initiatives. Since the publication of the first Sustainability Report, we have adjusted our practices to commonly accepted international sustainability standards. In particu- lar, this Sustainability Report has been drawn up in accordance with the Global Reporting Initiative¡¯s (GRI) G3 Guidelines and conveys a precise, clear, reliable, balanced and benchmarked overview of ENDESA¡¯s work towards ensuring sustainability.  Moreover, an ex- ternal, independent company has verified ENDESA¡¯s commitment to complying with the GRI indicators, AccountAbility principles and the Global Compact as well as our commitment to OECD principles and the United Nations¡¯ Millennium Project.
Thirdly, this Annual Report reflects how the company has been able to meet the economic, environmental and social challenges posed by this global approach to sustainability. ENDESA¡¯s mission is very clear: to provide value for the community through the provision of a basic, accessible, and quality service, with responsible stew- ardship of the natural resources deployed; to promote research and eco-efficiency; to take care of its shareholders¡¯ interests; to encour- age professional and personal development in its employees; and to address the social needs of the communities in which the company operates.
Our success in meeting these objectives has allowed us to take the next step, with the creation and implementation of our 2008-2012 Strategic Sustainability Plan, which is based on even more ambitious targets than those from the 2003-2007 Environment and Sustaina- ble Development Strategic Plan, which ended last year and in which 95% of the objectives were met.

This new Plan will not only help us strengthen our commitment to sustainable development, but also to meet the present and future challenges facing our industry, above all in the fight against climate change. In our view, these challenges are an opportunity  to create value for society.
The following pages give detailed information on how we are go- ing to meet these challenges and how we want to take advantage of these opportunities. I hope this report will help you to understand who we are, but more importantly, to understand who we wish to become.

Rafael Miranda Robredo
Chief Executive Officer

---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Endesa 2008

For the eighth  consecutive year, ENDESA¡¯s Annual Sustainability Report provides a detailed  analysis of the sustainable development initiatives carried out over the past year.
For this company, and all of us who are proud to belong to it, the commitment to sustainable development  is a com- mitment to the future and to growth.
ENDESA upholds this belief through a rigorous, consistent and transparent adherence to the sustainability principles that underpin its business model and management philosophy. And this has been frequently applauded by the markets and specialist bodies. Suffice to say that  ENDESA is one of the few multinational  companies to be twice named world sustainability leader in its sector by the Dow Jones Sustainability Index, a selective index whose members have to ac- credit their use of good practices in the different fields of sustainable development and corporate responsibility.
Today, for a company such as ours, the challenges of sustainable development lie mainly in the need and opportunity to build a new energy model which is both global and sustainable. A model based on having the capacity to supply a growing demand for energy, while at the same time protecting the environment, and, in particular, staving off the unwanted  repercussions of energy use, such as climate change. We also need to supply energy to the millions of people across the world  who  still  do not have access. ENDESA aspires to be a key player in the construction of this new energy model.
In 2008,  ENDESA embarked  on a new  phase in the development of its business model, defining a strategic plan an- chored on sound economic growth and encompassing the principles of social progress and environmental balance. One of the mainstays of this new development phase is ENDESA¡¯s Sustainability  Plan (PES) 2008-2012.
The aim of this plan is lay the foundations  to allow the company to progress further towards honouring our com- mitments and incorporate the principles of sustainable development into all management and operational spheres. In its first year of execution, significant steps were taken with  the launch of new initiatives and programmes, and other projects already in place were strengthened.
Our company is working  to meet, or even exceed, the social expectations of our main stakeholders: security of supply, combating climate change, socio-economic development on a local scale and compliance with the UN Global Compact, among others.
ENDESA¡¯s commitment to our customers first and foremost requires us to provide  access to energy in the optimum conditions of quality and security. In 2008, ENDESA obtained record figures with regard to continuity of supply. In Spain, the average interruption  duration index (TIEPI) stood at 86 minutes, an improvement of 7% on 2007 and signalling the best quality  service level achieved in the company¡¯s history. In Latin America, the continuity of supply index improved by 11.4%.
With regard to employee management, in 2008 the company approved its Integrated Talent Management model and redoubled its efforts in two main areas: occupational  health and safety, obtaining  a significant  reduction in accident rates and; diversity management, making this a source of wealth, innovation  and education for the company and its employees.
In the fight  against  climate  change, ENDESA reduced its specific CO2  emissions by around  20%  compared  to 2007, pursuing the trend seen in previous years. Emissions in 2008 were 50%  lower than in 1990, compared to an initial  target of 35% for the year.
In 2008, the company¡¯s total  emissions of SO2, NOx  and particulates  across all countries in which it operates were respectively 73%, 13% and 48% lower than in 2007.  In Spain and Portugal reductions were achieved thanks to the actions carried out to meet the targets of the national emission reduction plan, entailing an investment of Euro 648 million.
Furthermore, ENDESA is working proactively to keep in step with a constantly-evolving regulatory environment, which regulates the energy model while at the same time introducing new opportunities for energy efficiency and fomenting the use of low-carbon production technology.
Furthermore, we are still one of the companies most actively involved in developing the principles of the Global Compact, on both an international and local level in the different countries where we operate. We understand that this global initiative  is essential to spread the conviction that sustainable development and corporate responsibility should form part of the business models of all modern, well-run  companies.
One of our most innovative projects ? the Ecoelce project in Colombia, involving offering  discounts on electricity bills for customers who recycle urban solid waste ? won a prize in the 2008 World Business and Development Awards conferred by the UN Development Programme, the International  Chamber of Commerce and the International Business Leaders Forum.
In sum, this Sustainability  Report aims to offer society and the markets an account of our performance in the field of sustainable development and our capacity to generate value for the countries and regions where we operate. Both factors are part and parcel of our business philosophy and the way in which we conceive and conduct our business; and are emblems with which we would wish to be identified. However, we also look to the future in this report, to provide an understanding of what  ENDESA wants  to be tomorrow.
This Sustainability Report has been drawn up in accordance with the Global Reporting Initiative¡¯s (GRI) G3 Guidelines and verified by an external, independent entity. It reflects our appraisal of our level of compliance with  GRI indicators, AccountAbility  principles and the Global Compact as well as our commitment  to OECD principles  and the United  Na- tions¡¯ Millennium Project.
We do not wish to be complacent  and offer  a detailed  balance of our efforts,  our successes and our failures. Because this is the only way we can improve every day. And that is our goal.

Borja Prado Eulate
Chairman

Rafael Miranda Robredo                                                                                 
Chief Executive Officer   

Andrea Brentan
Executive Vice chairman

---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Endesa 2009

ENDESA is presenting its ninth consecutive Annual Sustainability Report. This document is intended to inform all our stakeholders about the sustainable development initiatives undertaken by the company in 2009.

Endesa¡¯s commitment to sustainability is one of our hallmarks and defining traits. We understand this commitment as a three- dimensional concept that shapes our responsible social, economic and environmental conduct.

We pledge that the principles relating to this concept are fully and effectively incorporated into our values, business mission and vision and decision-making  processes. We believe that this commitment can only be real and effective if it is also required from all the companies in our business Group and all our employees. It is therefore an integral part of our economic compensation  systems and codes of conduct for employees and partners who work with us.

This global concept is clearly reflected in the Seven Commitments to Sustainable Development  issued by the company In 2003 that form the basis of our sustainability policy. These seven commitments reflect the obligations and responsibilities that we hold vis-?-vis our customers, shareholders, employees and the communities in which we operate. They address issues such as ethical conduct and transparency, technical innovation, energy efficiency and the environment.

Ensuring a reliable, accessible supply of energy in the areas where we operate and including the social and environmental  aspects of our activity in our business management  model are two of ENDESA¡¯s most important objectives, and the company worked particularly hard on them in 2009. We have further cemented our position of leadership in this activity, in addition to our contribution to sustainable development.

The report describes the activities undertaken in respect of each of these seven commitments and in respect of our two main priorities: combating climate change and strengthening ties with local communities.

In addition, in our day-to-day activity we face enormous global challenges  such as the international economic  crisis, new regulatory frameworks, increased access to energy supply and environmental protection. The initiatives carried out by ENDESA in 2009 not only demonstrate that the company has the capacity to deal with new market demands but also that it is prepared  to take advantage of the opportunities that arise.

This Sustainability Report has been drawn up in accordance with the Global Reporting Initiative?s (GRI) G3 Guidelines and verified by an external, independent entity. It reflects our appraisal of our level of compliance with GRI indicators, AccountAbility principles and the Global Compact as well as our commitment to OECD principles and the United Nations? Millennium Project.

Lastly, we would like to stress that we still have work to do. Our achievements so far prompt us to work harder to be what we want to be: An indispensable partner in the economic, social and environmental progress of the countries where we operate.

Borja Prado Eulate
Chairman

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
These are times of challenges and crucial transformations, in which a company¡¯s quest for results cannot be purely financial.

Given the impact our business has and our aim to play a leading role in the economic, social and cultural development of the areas where we operate, we at ENDESA are convinced that a leader, above all in a strategic sector for society like energy, must work hard to achieve the best results, not only financial but also in the area of sustainability.

With this conviction and the support of two pillars of our corporate culture ?care for the areas where we do business and our pledge to being a ¡°good citizen¡±? we launched the ENDESA 2008-2012 Sustainability Plan. 2009 marked the second year of the Plan, which fully integrates the three dimensions of sustainability in the Company¡¯s strategy and embraces ENDESA¡¯s seven core commitments and two main objectives for the period.

This report describes the actions carried out in relation to each of these commitments  ( to our customers, to people, to investors, to good governance and transparency, to the environment, to technology and innovation and to our partners) and to the two main objectives  ( combating climate change and strengthening ties with local communities).

In 2009, ENDESA continued to work on bring customers closer and adapting to their needs and expectations. It upgraded and extended its infrastructure, improved customers services and created new channels of communications to strengthen relations with customers. These efforts paid off, as ENDESA achieved  a higher global customer satisfaction rating in Spain than its peers.

For its efforts to bear fruit, it is crucial that the company take care of and promote the talent of its more than 26,000 employees.  For ENDESA, its ties with commitments to these men and women are at the heart of the company and are essential elements of its culture. For this reason, we have continued to develop the Integrated Talent Management model, aimed at fostering the commitment of our people and making them proud of belonging to the company. Strides have also been made in managing work-life balance, diversity and equality, and the company has continued disseminating OHS (occupational  health and safety), with ongoing awareness campaigns, training courses and communication for its employees and partners.

The fourth Workplace Satisfaction Survey, conducted in 2009, confirmed the good results of this work. ENDESA achieved  its highest ever rating for this type of survey ? 79% employee participation ? and maintained a high level of employee commitment to the company (78%), higher than the average of the companies we used as a benchmark.

Specifically, the 2009 Workplace Satisfaction Survey showed that employees consider OHS to be one of the values that most symbolises ENDESA. This view is fully aligned with the criteria followed by the company¡¯s management, which believes that ¡°zero accidents¡± is an undeniable target in our strategy and corporate behaviour.

ENDESA also considers  complying with good corporate  governance standards as one of its main obligations in social responsibility, basing its management on principles of ethics and transparency with respect to its stakeholders.

Meanwhile, the company is aware that it must respect and adapt to the peculiarities of each area where it operates in order to communicate and implement its social actions effectively. To achieve this, in 2009 the company designed and implemented Country Sustainability Plans, aimed at further adapting its actions to local needs, while it remained involved in local social cooperation, educational, cultural and environmental awareness-raising initiatives, which comprise the four cornerstones of its social action strategy.

In midst of the world¡¯s worst economic crisis ever, ENDESA views confidence to be a core value. To uphold this conviction and face a difficult and ever-changing environment, the company counts on two fundamental qualities of its culture: ethics and honesty. In this respect, it stepped up its commitment to transparency in 2009, reporting on its actions regarding social investments in two ways: with its own reporting and, for the first time, through the international standard, the London Benchmarking Group.

As for the environment, ENDESA is always aware  of the impact that energy generation and distribution has on the environment and that it is an unassailable part of the development and well-being of society. Its commitment to preserving the environment  is real and realistic. It understands that climate change is one of the greatest environmental challenges to be faced and has therefore adopted a clear strategic approach, predicated on technology and innovation.

After two years in the making, the ENDESA Climate Change Programme has become a benchmark in the field thanks to its commitment to, inter alia, energy efficiency, investment in RDI, and the launch of pioneering carbon capture and CO2 emission reduction initiatives. In a bid to gain energy independence and improve the quality of the air and noise levels in cities, ENDESA is strongly  committed to promoting electric vehicles as one of the cornerstones of its fight against climate change.

2009 also featured a significant change in ENDESA¡¯s shareholder structure after Enel became the owner of 92.06% of its shares, affording it control over the Group. By integrating sustainability into its business managing, ENDESA was also able to make a smooth transition, joining one of the world¡¯s leading multinational energy groups.

With the presentation of the 2009 Sustainability Report, its ninth annual report, ENDESA is meeting one of its primary objectives: to keep stakeholders aware of its performance in this field. We pledge to continue working to improve on our performance in 2010.

Andrea Brentan
Chief Executive Officer

---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Endesa 2010

ENDESA publishes  its tenth annual Sustainability Report this year, becoming one of the first companies in the world to accomplish this. Throughout the decade ENDESA¡¯s commitment to sustainable development has been one of the main pillars of the company¡¯s strategy and management model.

ENDESA¡¯s sustainability  policy is based on its Seven Commitments for Sustainable Development published in 2003. These commitments to ethical conduct and transparency, technical innovation, and energy efficiency and the environment have been made to customers, shareholders, employees and the communities where the company operates.

ENDESA¡¯s strategy in the area of sustainable development  is set out in its 2008-2012
Sustainability Plan (PES 2008-2012). This report reflects ENDESA¡¯s compliance with the objectives set to implement this strategy at company level.

2010, the third year of the plan, has continued to involve the intensive roll-out of initiatives,  as shown in this publication. Taking stock and looking at how far the Sustainability Plan¡¯s programmes and actions have progressed, data show that at December 2010 more than the scheduled progress had been made . The greatest progress has been made with regard to the measures taken by the company to fight climate change.

ENDESA¡¯s commitment to sustainable development  has been assumed by senior management and affects all areas of the company. The Sustainability Plan 2008-2012 comprises a total of 74 tracking indicators, 47 of which are included in the senior management¡¯s Sustainability Scoreboard, evidencing that sustainability  is not just a statement of intent for ENDESA, but is a roadmap leading to tangible action.

It is without doubt allowing the company to successfully and competitively face some of the major challenges affecting the global sector: the recession, growing energy demand, climate change, and the development of a sustainable and diversified energy mix.

This report has been prepared following the new Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) G3.1 guidelines launched in 2010. ENDESA is one of the first companies to be awarded an
A+ rating by GRI under these new guidelines and has been independently  verified by an external entity.

The report also includes the specific Electric Utilities Sector Supplement from the GRI and all the principles of the AA1000 APS (2008) and the Global Compact.

This tenth anniversary of ENDESA¡¯s Sustainability  Report is not only cause for us to celebrate our achievements but also strengthens our commitment to continue improving our social, economic and environmental performance.

Borja Prado Eulate
Chairman

---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Endesa 2011

This is ENDESA¡¯s 11th Annual Sustainability Report, outlin- ing our commitment to sustainable development and re- porting on progress in 2011 to our stakeholders.

ENDESA¡¯s  sustainable development strategy is set out in the 2008-2012 Sustainability Plan. Throughout 2011, we maintained excellent performance levels on all of the Plan¡¯s programmes, with 80% of objectives being achieved in its fourth year of operations, well ahead of schedule.

In 2003, the Management Committee approved a Sustain- ability Policy in response to the Seven Commitments to Sus- tainable Development made to our customers, sharehold- ers, employees and the societies in which we operate; this Policy also detailed our commitments on ethical behaviour and transparency, technological innovation and energy ef- ficiency, and caring for the environment.

ENDESA¡¯s commitment to sustainable development begins with our senior management and extends to every part of the Company. The Sustainability Plan contains a total of 67 monitoring indicators, of which 51 form part of the Sus- tainability Scorecard reported to senior management  every six months; all of the Company¡¯s employees are involved in implementing these actions. The greatest progress on the Sustainability Plan in 2011 related to measures taken by the Company to combat climate change.

For the second consecutive year, this report has been pre- pared in accordance with version G3.1 of the Global Re- porting  Initiative (GRI) and has been verified by an inde- pendent external body.

The report is complemented  by the specific GRI Electric Utili- ties Sector Supplement and the principles of AA1000 APS (2008) and the Global Compact.

Having now  published 11 Annual Sustainability  Reports, ENDESA remains committed to  transparent reporting of progress on sustainability and corporate responsibility to all of its stakeholders.

Borja Prado Eulate
Chairman

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 

ENDESA¡¯s commitment to sustainable, responsible growth is reflected in its management model. It aims to  create long-term value for the communities where it operates by integrating environmental and social opportunities with its overarching strategy.

This commitment to Sustainability extends across all ENDESA Group companies and to every member of staff, and is re- flected in the ENDESA Sustainability Plan (PES) 2008-2012.

The PES is structured into seven key lines that lend conti- nuity to the Group¡¯s Seven Sustainable Development  Com- mitments: our people, our customers, our investors, good governance and transparency, the environment, technology and innovation, and  our partners. In addition, the PES is designed  to deal with two key challenges: the fight against climate change and strengthening ties with local communi- ties in the countries and territories where ENDESA operates.

In 2011, ENDESA  and Enel¡¯s  commitment to the Global Compact was boosted by its  inclusion in Global Compact  LEAD, the United Nations (UN) initiative that brings together the 54 most sustainable companies in the world. ENDESA is actively involved  in two working groups: Sustainable Energy for All and Engagement with Indigenous People.

This Sustainability  Report sets out the performance highlights of the Company¡¯s commitment to Sustainability in 2011.

Our people

As in previous years, our first and foremost concern is the safety of all the people who work at or with ENDESA. Last year, all initiatives relating to occupational health and safety undertaken in all the countries where we operate were in- tegrated within the 2011-2015 Safety Plan, so as to con- solidate all the efforts and action lines developed to date to encourage the exchange of best practices and synergies.

Our efforts have succeeded in reducing the rate of serious accidents by 40%, even though the previous year had seen particularly good  performance. Nevertheless,  our  single goal is still to achieve a zero accident rate. The combined accident frequency rate for ENDESA and its sub-contrac- tors fell by 17% year on year.

ENDESA  is firmly committed to the principles of gender equality and non-discrimination. In May 2011, the Ministry of Health, Social Policy and Equality awarded ENDESA the ¡°Equality in the Workplace¡± seal, which recognises organi- sations that are deeply committed to gender equality.

Based on  the  2010  working  climate  survey, ENDESA launched its 2011-2012 Working Climate Improvement Ac- tion Plan. 45% of the 191 proposed actions to enhance the Company¡¯s working environment were completed last year.

Our customers

ENDESA   continues to strive towards enhanced customer satisfaction. Our goal is to be perceived  as the best supplier by our  25.3 million customers. We have improved conti- nuity of supply  in Spain, Portugal and Latin America. In
2011, the average interruption time (TIEPI) in Spain was 73 minutes, cementing ENDESA¡¯s position as one of the best electric utilities in this field. Our power supply reliability now covers 99.9% of hours in the year.

As to improvements in customer service, we have made significant progress. Waiting time was reduced by 48% in commercial offices, a 24% improvement was noted in sales, contracting and activation  processes in the mass mar- ket and perceived quality improved by 8% in meter-reading and billing procedures.

The www.endesaonline.com  virtual office once again grew significantly in 2011, demonstrating its future as a customer service  channel by expanding its user base by 32% with respect to 2010.

Shareholders and investors

With  respect to  shareholders and investors, ENDESA formed part of the Dow Jones Sustainability  Index (DJSI) for the eleventh consecutive year, with  a score of 80/100, equalling the record set in 2010. In addition, the Compa- ny achieved a 10-point improvement over last year¡¯s score (88/100) for the Carbon Disclosure Project: this index meas- ures emission reductions and corporate transparency as to climate change mitigation performance.

ENDESA¡¯s  shareholder and investor office provides a per- sonalised service. We offer quarterly performance presen- tations, present our strategic plan on an annual basis and hold an annual Investor Day, at which investors are encour- aged to visit us and ask questions about ENDESA and eve- rything we do.

Good governance and transparency

In the area of good governance, ENDESA continues to de- liver on its commitment to its new Code of Ethics and Zero Tolerance programme, introduced in 2010 to reinforce ex- isting initiatives: the Employee Code of Conduct, the Char- ter governing senior management and the Charter govern- ing executives. In 2011, the Company circulated these new standards to all its employees.

Environment

Protecting the environment remains a priority for ENDESA. Its 2008-2012 Environment  Plan focuses on combating cli- mate change, obtaining excellence in environmental man- agement and preserving biodiversity. Highlights include the restoration of the As Pontes mine and slag heap to create the most biodiverse area in Galicia, containing a lake and more than 600,000 newly-planted trees.

In 2011, 99.94% of power produced by ENDESA was ISO14001-certified. We continued to implement and certify our environmental management systems  and to  review the environmental procedures in place at our Latin Ameri- can facilities.  ENDESA has carried out significant initiatives at its facilities to curb emissions. The initiatives have re- quired a total investment of approximately Euro 648 mil- lion, and have made it possible to reduce sulphur dioxide (SO2) emissions  by 89%, nitrogen oxide (NOX) emissions by 50% and particles from large plants by 77% between 2006 and 2011.

Climate change

ENDESA fights climate change by developing emission-free energy sources, enhancing energy efficiency and supporting  research and development efforts to curb its emissions. In
2011, close to 50% of all power produced by ENDESA was emission-free. The Company reduced CO2 emissions from its power facilities to 12.5 million tonnes below 2005 levels, an annual reduction of approximately 2.5 million  tonnes, equivalent to 5.5% of its total yearly emissions.

ENDESA is a leader in the field of e-mobility. It has cemented its leading position by entering into partnership deals with electric vehicle manufacturers and distributors and a range of public authorities, including the city councils of Madrid, Barcelona,  Seville and Palma, the regional government of Extremadura, and the local authority of the island of El Hier- ro. In line with its commitment to developing e-mobility, in 2011 ENDESA installed 329 charging points: 314 in Spain and 15 in Latin America.

ENDESA  and Enel retained their leading positions in the global carbon market ranking, with a combined portfolio of  114 Clean Development Mechanism (CDM) projects.  ENDESA is involved  in 7 carbon funds.

Technology and innovation

The Company  has developed  RDI projects in all of its busi- ness lines and corporate technology activities, which are in- cluded in the 2009-2013 Technology Plan. In 2011, ENDESA rolled out one million smart meters in the context of its on- going Remote Management project, which involves install- ing 13 million smart meters in partnership with Enel. The second year of the ENDESA Global Energy  Efficiency  Plan (PGE3) has now been completed.

The Company is the lead partner in the M?laga SmartCity venture and has begun work on the Barcelona SmartCity project, an initiative to upgrade the power supply system in Barcelona, where it will roll out a cutting-edge smart grid offering greater savings and more efficient and sustainable management. This development will prepare the city for the energy model of the future, underpinned by the principles of economic and social progress in the local community and enhanced energy efficiency.

ENDESA is also leading the first two SmartCity projects to be rolled out in Latin America: B?zios (Brazil) and Santiago 
(Chile). ENDESA is working on applying efficiency and sus- tainability concepts in public spaces and its own buildings and grids, integrating renewable energy and smart storage (microgrids).

Our partners

ENDESA is extending its occupational safety policies to its suppliers by requiring the same standards to be applied both to people working at ENDESA and to sub-contractors. We have achieved a 30% decrease in the rate of serious ac- cidents among suppliers and contractors.

In 2011, ENDESA continued with its Vendor Rating System, increasing the number of purchasing families from 9 to 39 (20 in Spain and 19 in Latin America). The Company has also identified 418 strategic suppliers and contractors, 25 more than in 2010.

Establishing ties with local communities

Rising to the challenge of creating ties with  local com- munities, in 2011 ENDESA introduced and implemented its five Sustainability Territory Plans: Andalusia and Extrema- dura, Aragon, the Balearic Islands, the Canary Islands and Catalonia). As  part of  these efforts, territorial indicators were established. The goal is to offer an overall vision of Sustainability at the local level and to lead, coordinate and implement local sustainable development actions.

ENDESA is actively involved in the ENabling ELectricity pro- gramme, which encompasses specific actions providing ac- cess to electricity via three key areas into which its related social projects can be grouped:

?   Projects that guarantee technological  and infrastructure  accessibility:  improved kitchens in Jun?n (Peru), solar panel  installation (Jun?n, Peru), electrification of com- munities (Peru), the Power For All programme (Brazil) and lighting of sports facilities (Peru) and the Multican- chas initiative (Chile).

?   Projects that  eliminate economic barriers for the lowest income levels in society: Ecoelce and Ecoampla in Brazil and Ecochilectra in Chile.

?   Creation  of capabilities: Nuevo Pachac?tec  (Peru), Chil- ectra university chair (Chile), Ampla Awareness (Brazil), Travelling  educational information (Chile) and Coelce nas Escolas (Brazil).

The five Sustainability Committees in Latin America (Argen- tina, Brazil, Colombia, Chile and Peru) continued their work to coordinate and develop the Country Plans in 2011, hold- ing 20 meetings (four in each country) during the year to reinforce  ties  with  local communities. In addition, two Sustainability meetings were hold among all the countries to coordinate criteria and promote specific corporate pro- jects (e.g. stakeholders, reporting). ECountry and Regional Plan fulfilment exceeded the 80% level expected for 2011.

As in previous years, this Sustainability Report is intended to emphasise the advocacy and communication of the cul- ture of Sustainability  as a beneficial community value. This communication effort  helps improve our performance in this field.

Andrea Brentan
Chief Executive Officer



---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Endesa 2012

This is ENDESA¡¯s 12th Annual Sustainability Report, outlining our commitment to sustainable development and reporting progress made in 2012 to all our stakeholders.

2012 was the last year of ENDESA¡¯s 2008-2012 Sustainability Plan (PES), which reflects the Company¡¯s strategy in the area of sustainable development. The plan was completed successfully in its fifth year, with more than 98% of the objectives met.

ENDESA¡¯s commitment to sustainable development begins with our senior management and extends to every part of the Company and all employees. The Sustainability Plan contains a total of 67 monitoring indicators, of which 52 form part of the Sustainability Scorecard reported to senior management every six months; all of the Company¡¯s employees are involved in implementing these actions. 

The 2008-2012 Sustainability Plan was the natural successor to the 2003-2007 Strategic Plan for the Environment and Sustainable Development, the definitive implementing tool for our Sustainability Policy and a response to the seven commitments to sustainable development made by the Company to our customers, shareholders, employees and the communities in which we operate. This policy also detailed our commitments to ethical behavior and transparency, technological innovation, energy efficiency and respect for the environment
.
For the third consecutive year, this report has been prepared in accordance with version G3.1 of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) and has been verified by an independent external body. 

The report is complemented by the specific GRI Electric Utilities Sector Supplement and the principles of AA1000 APS (2008) and the Global Compact. In ENDESA¡¯s sustainability management model, the concept of Sustainability forms part of the principles of the Global Compact and is an integral part of the Company¡¯s management strategy, from the definition of its mission, vision and values to the individual objectives set for senior managers and other employees whose salaries are determined to some degree by achieving management objectives.

Having published 12 Sustainability Reports, ENDESA remains committed to transparent reporting of progress on sustainability to all of its stakeholders. 

The Company believes that responsible conduct, accountability and sustainability management are all key to legitimating our actions in the communities where we operate. Therefore, we are now working on our next Sustainability Plan, which will include our definitive strategic business and sustainability planning.

---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Endesa 2013

The 2013 Sustainability Report, designed to inform stakeholders on the Company¡¯s sustainability performance in 2013, forms part of ENDESA¡¯s commitment to sustainable development and transparency. The commitment to sustainable development begins with senior management and extends to every part of the Company and all employees. The 2008-2012 Sustainability Plan carried out over the past few years was renewed and extended in 2013 for its natural inclusion in the Enel Group Sustainability Plan. The 2008-2012 Sustainability Plan carried out over the past few years was renewed and extended in 2013 for its natural inclusion in the Enel Group Sustainability Plan.

The Sustainability Plan reflects ENDESA's firm commitment to economic and social development through investment in productive activities geared towards ensuring environmentally-sustainable energy for the fulfilment of its mission and the long-term development of its businesses. The Sustainability Plan contains a total of 71 monitoring indicators, of which 50 form part of the Sustainability Scorecard reported to senior management every six months.

The 2013 Sustainability Report has been prepared in accordance with version G3.1 of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) and has been verified by an independent external body. The report is complemented by the specific GRI Electric Utilities Sector Supplement and the principles of AA1000 APS (2008) and the Global Compact. 

In ENDESA's sustainability management model, the concept of sustainability forms part of the principles of the Global Compact and is an integral part of the Company's management strategy, from the definition of its mission, vision and values to the individual objectives set for senior managers and other employees whose salaries are determined to some degree by achieving management objectives. 

ENDESA's commitment to transparency is underscored by the publication of 13 Sustainability Reports. The Company believes that responsible conduct, accountability and sustainability management are all essential to give legitimacy to our actions in the communities where we operate. 

In 2013, ENDESA publicly renewed its commitment to the implementation, disclosure and promotion of the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC). Since adhering to the UNGC in 2012, the Company has endeavoured to embrace the ten universally accepted principles in the areas of human rights, labour, environment and anti-corruption in its operations and strategy. We are actively committed to this international initiative through our memberships to national and regional networks by adhering to various existing global initiatives under the UNGC framework. The information contained in the Sustainability Report describes the actions carried out by the Company to ensure that it upholds the ten principles in its businesses and promotes and disseminates them among its stakeholders.

ENDESA has an ongoing commitment to respect and protect human rights. This commitment is reflected in the Company's mission, vision and values, evidenced in its adherence to the UNGC. In 2013, within the scope of an initiative adopted throughout the Enel Group, ENDESA's Board of Directors approved the Company's Human Rights Policy. This policy was presented to and approved by the boards of directors of the various subsidiaries. ENDESA's Human Rights Policy sets out the Company's commitment and responsibilities in relation to human rights in general, and those applicable to the business activities and corporate operations carried out by company employees in particular.

Approval of the policy marks a step forward in ENDESA's longstanding commitment to principles of sustainable development. Year after year, this commitment poses new challenges
that the Company is willing to tackle decisively and transparently.
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Enel 2004
Ethics and good corporate governance

¡°A company like Enel ? one of the largest in Italy ? has an obligation to take re-
sponsibility for the social and environmental impact of its activities as well as for its economic results. In these years we have worked intensely to be in the forefront also with regard to corporate social responsibility, accepting the challenge pre- sented by the experiences of the major international companies.¡±

Piero Gnudi, Enel¡¯s Chairman, is one of Italy¡¯s most prominent public accountants. His career has been characterized by his work on the boards of directors of sever- al leading Italian companies, which has led him to participate in delicate process- es of change in the country¡¯s economic and industrial system.
Enel¡¯s  Chairman since May 2002, Gnudi has concentrated especially on the
Company¡¯s corporate governance mechanisms.
¡°By governance,¡± Gnudi explains, ¡°is meant a set of rules, processes, and man- agement and auditing systems in order to have fair, effective, and transparent
management of a company and which allows its stakeholders (shareholders, lenders, human resources, customers, institutions, future generations, and local communities) to be promptly and accurately in- formed about the company¡¯s compliance with the rules it has established for itself and about the sus- tainability of its actions.¡±
¡°Companies that are characterized by high ethical standards,¡± Gnudi continues, ¡°are the most attrac- tive for young people, especially the most talented ones, and are the ones where the pride of belong- ing and motivation to achieve are strongest and most deeply rooted.¡±
Enel assumes its corporate responsibility also at the international level. ¡°We have accepted the princi- ples of the United Nations¡¯ Global Compact and are among the 62 companies that in Davos subscribed to the Partnering Against Corruption Initiative (PACI), with its ¡®zero tolerance policy to stamp out cor- ruption and bribery¡¯ that was announced at the meeting of the 2005 World Economic Forum. We are developing a corporate procedure,¡± Gnudi adds, ¡°that incorporates these principles, transforming them into rules and practice. Enel¡¯s presence in many international indexes that measure the sustain- ability of companies is an incentive for us to maintain extremely high standards in this regard.¡±
Enel is also among the most active companies in supporting social solidarity. ¡°Eight operating  compa- nies of the Group combined their efforts to found a non-profit organization, Enel Cuore Onlus. In 2004, the latter had 6 million euros at its disposal for funding rigorously selected, wide-ranging solidarity ini- tiatives, which enabled incisive and enduring projects to be carried out in support of the most vulner- able people. In very little time,¡± Gnudi says in conclusion, ¡±Enel Cuore has become a benchmark for non-profit organizations in Italy, as well as representing one of the most familiar and recognizable faces
of our system of corporate social responsibility.¡±

Piero Gnudi
Chairman

------------------------------------------------------------------------------ Supplementary Information
66 years old
Designated by the Ministry of the Economy and Finance

From 1994 to 1999 a director of IRI and subsequently chairman of the Liquidation Committee from 2000 until 2002

Member of the steering committee of Assonime and chairman of Emittenti Titoli

Member of the board and the executive committee of Confindustria

Vice-chairman of UniCredit Banca d¡¯Impresa and a director of UniCredito

Member of the executive committee of the Aspen Institute

----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------Creating value with sustainability

¡°We want to continue to be a safe haven for those who invest in our Company,
and the determination with which we are pursuing our corporate social responsi- bility and Enel¡¯s overall sustainability is the best guarantee we can offer.¡±

Enel¡¯s Chief Executive Officer since 2002, Paolo Scaroni acquired in International companies the experience that got him involved with environmental, social, and corporate-governance issues in accordance with the interests of financial analysts and investors. ¡°Beginning in 2002,¡± Scaroni explains, ¡°we have dedicated a lot of attention to these subjects both inside and outside our  Company. We have launched a program of training in the issues of corporate social responsibility for
4,500 executives and superintendents, while including 70 specific sustainability objectives in our strategic plan. And we are gradually including these objectives in our incentive plans for executives.¡±
In May 2005, Enel received an important acknowledgement for these activities from Sodalitas ? an association promoting social entrepreneurship  ? as part of the Sodalitas Social Award. Scaroni also considers corporate social responsibility to be a fundamental part of Enel¡¯s life. ¡°Our first objective is to create value with our businesses,¡± he says, ¡°remunerating our shareholders and gaining positions of excellence in the electricity and gas industries. In order to achieve this objec- tive, we have to be efficient. At the same time, we want to integrate our recent acquisitions abroad al- so with regard to sustainability.  This commitment will require further development of our capabilities in the collection and management of data regarding sustainability. A detailed example of our ability to collect and manage these data is published at the end of this Report and the reporting system used, which involves about 200 people in the Company, was considered one of the best by an important sus- tainability index.¡±
¡°Large international investors want companies to pay dividends and minimize risk,¡± Scaroni continues, ¡°just like small long-term investors. For both kinds, sustainability is an important consideration in their investment decisions. Enel¡¯s shareholders include 47 ethical funds ? those specialized in socially re- sponsible investment ? which hold about 20% of all the shares held by institutional investors. Along with these, we have 2.5 million individual shareholders, and 623,000 investors bought the Enel shares that were placed on the market in October 2004, while more than 220,000 people subscribed the
bonds we recently issued.¡±

Paolo Scaroni
Chief Executive Officer

------------------------------------------------------------------------------ Supplementary Information
58 years old

Designated by the Ministry of the Economy and Finance

Chairman of the board of directors of Alliance Unichem Plc

Member of the board of the Columbia University Business School in New York City

Member of ABN AMRO Bank¡¯s supervisory board

Member of the boards of directors of Marzotto and Il Sole 24 Ore

President of Unindustria
Venezia

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Enel 2005
A CONTINUING COMMITMENT

Enel¡¯s fourth Sustainability Report photographs the face of a company that
continues to change and evolve rapidly while it copes with several histori- cally decisive transformations, in particular its international growth and the approach of the complete liberalization of the electricity market in Italy. Looking at these objectives, we want to provide the growing public of peo- ple, associations, and institutions that discuss with us ? our stakeholders ? the opportunity to observe the complex reality of the Enel Group by telling them what we are doing to get the Company to grow in a sustainable way, that is, with the utmost respect for their legitimate expectations.
In order to talk to customers, employees, retail and professional investors, lo- cal communities, institutions, and suppliers spread out in distant and diverse countries, it was necessary to produce a Report that was at the same time simple and complex, but above all trustworthy, on the basis of shared and
internationally recognized standards. Even though we don¡¯t want to relinquish the objective of con- stant improvement, we believe we¡¯ve succeeded.
Leafing through this document, shareholders, bondholders, and institutional investors can compare fi- nancial indicators and strategies aimed at creating value with the most advanced models of corporate governance and management, geared to transparency and effectiveness through the introduction of internal procedures that in many cases go well beyond what is required by the law.
Our customers ? to whom we are bound by 40 years of work and commitment at the service of the coun- try¡¯s development ? will be able to evaluate the quality of a relationship that is based more and more on listening and dialogue. We are aware of the challenge that the complete liberalization of the market will create for us when, in July 2007, all Italian families (and not only persons with a VAT registration num- ber) will be free to choose their supplier. And it is precisely because we respect the total sovereignty of the customer that we were the first ? and you will find a lot of evidence of it in this Report ? to introduce into Italy not only flexible and made-to-order rates, but also IT systems such as digital meters and the network for reading them at a distance that make such flexibility possible. This great effort represents enormous investments as well as a lot of work by the women and men at Enel and requires a parallel ef- fort in communication, which once again ? whether we are talking about advertising, financial infor- mation, or communication with the media ? must correspond to the highest standards of quality, trans- parency, and reliability, because consumer choice should be based above all on trust.
Our suppliers will find that the Sustainability Report describes reliable procedures, which have also been strengthened by the extension of the shield constituted by our Ethical Code to include the policy of Zero Tolerance for Corruption recently approved in accordance with  the PACI  (Pact Against Corruption Initiative), which Enel signed in January 2005 together with more than 60 other multinational companies.
We explain to institutions, local communities, and the future generations the
method that Enel uses in developing its activity, with the objective of creating not only value for the Company, but also value for Italy and the other countries where it does business, while respecting the environment. Once again the num- bers of the Sustainability Report describe the high level of investment in renew- able energy sources and the necessary diversification of the mix of fuels used, in order to secure the supply and contain the price of energy, conditions that are indispensable for growth. This document also tells about Enel¡¯s commitment to adopting technical solutions aimed at ensuring the sustainability of its plants, which ? as the by now almost complete certification of our plants and networks demonstrates ? goes well beyond EC requirements and those of Italian law.
As shown by the content of this Report, corporate social responsibility ap- pears in many different ways: in research to increase the efficiency of our generating plants and reduce their emissions, for example, or in our constant support of culture and science, which has led Enel to become an important partner in the most important initiatives in the fields of music and art.
As far as our colleagues at Enel are concerned, we want to ensure that the management of people is based on the enhancement of their individual capabilities and the development of their potential in a company that is increasingly modern and oriented to the future, in Italy as well as in international mar- kets. Characterized by in-depth professional experience capable of elaborating a clear strategic vision and a profound awareness of the importance of customers and the market, Enel¡¯s human capital is the foundation that will enable the Company to achieve further steady and balanced growth.
Last, but not least, there is Enel¡¯s commitment to social initiatives in favor of society¡¯s most needful members through an independent not-for-profit organization, Enel Cuore, which in less than two years has become one of the benchmarks for solidarity in Italy, through both several large-scale projects (mainly in favor of children, the elderly, and the ill) and smaller-scale ones widely spread all over Italy, and abroad as well, in an attempt to meet the needs expressed above all by the world of volunteer so- cial work and associations.
Our aspiration is that this edition of the Sustainability Report will continue to reinforce our dialogue with our stakeholders and feed a virtuous circle between excellence in our core business and positive
repercussions on the overall system in which we operate.

Piero Gnudi
Chairman

Fulvio Conti
Chief Executive Officer

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Enel 2006

Letter to our stakeholders

Since 2003, Enel has had an on-going dialogue with its stake- holders (shareholders, providers of capital, customers, suppli- ers,  employees, communities, and institutions), in which it has informed the latter of the concrete actions that attest to the Company¡¯s commitment in fulfilling its economic, social, and environmental responsibility. In doing so, we have adopt- ed the most stringent international criteria in collecting the data, commenting on them, and making them available to the public.  Completeness and transparency have been our priorities. We have explained our plans for the future and told about the objectives we have achieved, those we intend to achieve, and the challenges we want to take up and win, in order to hand over a better world to the coming generations.

During the past five years, this commitment has obtained international recognition in a number of ways. We have been admitted to the most important indexes that measure Corporate Social Responsibility  and growth  sustainability, and over time we have improved our position in the rank- ings of the companies that are most engaged with this is- sue (for  example, AccountAbility¡¯s  worldwide ranking for Fortune places us sixth). Socially responsible and ethical mu- tual  funds  are  increasingly interested in  Enel¡¯s  shares. Furthermore, during this period we have received various awards for our sustainability policy. Our social responsibility policies are studied at numerous universities and have been the subject of tens of theses.

Among the other commitments that we have recently un- dertaken is an ambitious plan providing for more than fourbillion euros of investment in the next five years, which will
take us to the forefront in the production of clean energy. Our aim is to progressively reduce our emissions of CO2  and our ambition is to produce energy with zero emissions. We are developing an important industrial project providing for the use of the most advanced technology available to enable us to produce energy from coal while fully respecting the en- vironment. We are also dedicating energy and resources to research on techniques of capturing and sequestrating  CO2, as well as reducing our emissions of it.

With  our  recent  takeover of  Slovensk? elektr?rne, in Slovakia, we have gone back to managing nuclear  plants with extremely high standards of safety and efficiency, which are already backed by all the relevant European and world bodies. Safety and efficiency in the management of these plants are absolute priorities for us.

During 2006, Enel continued to pursue the strategy of ex- panding its international operations, which has already en- abled us to have a significant presence in Europe and the Americas. Among other things, growing abroad requires at- tentiveness with regard to sustainability and social responsi- bility. Coordinated action is required to ensure that we listen to, understand,  discuss with, and cooperate with the com- munities that host us in the countries where we do business.

In 2007, the liberalization of the Italian electricity market will be completed, by also involving individual customers  and families. Enel has already taken up this challenge, presenting 
itself as the most innovative electricity distributor in terms of technology and the services offered customers and receiving increasing recognition from the millions of the latter. The positive experience acquired in Italy is  then  transferred to about 3 million customers in other European markets.

We have decided to change the way we tell you about our commitment to sustainability and social responsibility, in or- der to improve the channels of communication with you. For this reason we have created a website  (www.enel.com/- en/sustainability) that will present even more information re- garding our social responsibility policy. This site is an instru- ment with which everyone can directly evaluate and analyze our actions, thus contributing to the interactive communica- tion of our sustainability plans.

Experts also have at their disposal on the same site a publi- cation that reports our sustainability plan according to the new GRI-G3 international standard, which includes com- plete descriptions of the more than 400 key performance in- dicators that we monitor to ensure that our social responsi- bility objectives are achieved.

We want to continue to communicate in an open and gen- uinely interactive manner, in order to strengthen  the dia- logue that has always characterized our relations with our stakeholders. This tradition of attentiveness has now been enhanced with innovative and direct instruments, just as our approach to responsibility ? which derives from managing a company with respect for the environment and the genera- tions to come ? will remain innovative and direct.

Piero Gnudi Chairman
Fulvio Conti Chief Executive Officer  and General Manager

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Enel 2007

Letter to our stakeholders

This is the sixth year that the Enel Group has published the Sustainability Report, a document that is ever more closely connected and correlated with our Annual Report, just as corporate social responsibility has become an integral part
of our corporate strategies and ? like growth objectives and investment ? is now permanently incorporated in our industrial plans.
During these six years, not only have there been great changes in Enel, but also in the situation in which a large company producing, distributing, and selling energy operates.
The energy question is first on the agenda of governments, international organizations, and institutions carrying out analysis and research. The responsibilities of whoever aspires to act as a protagonist in this industry have increased proportionately and the question of relations with stakeholders has taken on a degree of complexity that was unimaginable only a few years ago. A sense of responsibility toward the communities in which it has been living and operating for almost half a century is written in Enel¡¯s DNA, but the new situation entails a managerial approach to corporate social responsibility (CSR) and we believe that these six years of environmental, social, and economic reporting represent a good photograph of the evolution of our Company toward new and complex scenarios.
In effect, the long-term challenge that Enel faces is to make sufficient energy available at a reasonable cost while respecting the environment. There is no single way to reconcile these apparently incompatible demands and win this challenge, but we have to exploit all the resources and technologies at our disposal.
For this reason, in the next few years Enel will be engaged on all fronts: from the development of renewable energy sources and the adoption of the most advanced technologies for sustainable production from traditional fossil sources to nuclear energy and research and development regarding new technologies
for both renewable and traditional sources.
The resources dedicated to the development of renewable sources and in technological innovation confirm Enel¡¯s commitment in this field. In effect, the investment provided for by the Environment and Innovation Project will increase from 4.1 billion euros as of 2011 to 6.8 billion euros as of 2012. Of these funds, more than 600 million euros will be earmarked for research on new technologies, especially in the field of renewable energy. Use of the most advanced technologies currently available and the development on an industrial scale
of new ones ? such as, for example, thermodynamic solar, hydrogen, CO2 capture and storage ? will contribute significantly to the efforts to combat climate change, among other things through the export of the technologies to less developed countries (LDCs). In this way, such countries will have at their  disposal effective instruments for reducing the environmental impact of their economic growth, achieving levels of efficiency and sustainability comparable to those of the most advanced countries.
Now a large multinational corporation, present in 21 countries on 4 continents, Enel is in an ideal position to stimulate this process and thus make a further contribution to the global effort for sustainability.
Its international growth has enabled Enel to start producing nuclear energy again, a precious resource which allows energy to be produced at a low cost and with zero emissions. We are thus once again developing our patrimony of nuclear expertise and we manage our plants in accordance with the most severe international standards of safety, which constitutes an absolute and unavoidable priority for us.
We are committed to rapidly improving our operating excellence, which is not limited to the environmental sphere, and the creation of value for all our shareholders.
Among the other objectives we have set for ourselves, we would like to highlight respect for the individual and his or her integrity, with particular emphasis on the issue of on-the-job safety. In order to govern this complex matter, a few essential general principles are necessary. They provide the foundations of our Code of Ethics and Zero Tolerance of Corruption Plan, which not only regulate the conduct of every Enel employee, but also make the Group¡¯s duties with regard to all our stakeholders public and clear.
In effect, our Company has fiduciary duties with respect to everyone who has significant interests at stake in our business, in terms of both financial investment and the effects that our operations have on the economy, the environment,
and society.
To ensure such commitment, every year we establish our CSR objectives and priorities in accordance with the Group¡¯s strategies and the principles of the U.N.¡¯s Global Compact, integrating them in our industrial plan and subjecting them to planning and auditing on a half-year basis.
Furthermore, since last year the¡°Sustainability Meter¡±has been available on our website. This instrument is dedicated to stakeholders who are interested in comparing their positions on several specific economic, environmental, and social issues with those of Enel.
This document tells about the distance covered by tens of thousands of Enel women and men in 2007. It is meant to provide a reading that is clear and as simple as possible of what they have achieved in all our fields of activity, successes and problems, in accordance with the commitments and duties we have with regard to all our stakeholders, and in particular to future generations.

Chairman                                     Chief Executive Officer and General Manager
Piero Gnudi                                 Fulvio Conti

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Enel 2008

Letter to our Stakeholders

2008 was an important year for Enel, one during which we laid solid foundations for completing the geographical and technological composition of the Group. We became stronger in Europe and Latin America, with a generating capacity of 83.3
GW at the end of 2008 ? thanks to the consolidation of 67.05% of Endesa and 100% of OGK-5 ? having achieved our business objectives and created opportunities for growth in the service of our 49.3 million customers.
With our acquisition of OGK-5 in Russia in March 2008 and the signing of our agreement with Acciona in February 2009, which meant that we had achieved full control of Endesa, we can say that our phase of international expansion has been successfully concluded.
In the next few years, our strategy will target financial solidity and the profitability of our industrial plan, as well as the dissemination of our corporate values throughout the newly consolidates companies. In pursuing these objectives, we shall always pay the utmost attention to the interests of all our stakeholders and observe the principles on which our social sustainability is based.
Furthermore, we shall make our operations ensuring that our business grows organically, and pursuing excellence in the service quality we provide. Sustainability permeates every aspect of our daily work. It is an integral part of the instruments at our disposal for doing our job, as well as of the safety conditions that protect us, our satisfaction, our professional development, and, with regard to the external world, the way in which we relate to our stakeholders: investors, customers, suppliers, institutions, future generations, employees, communities, and, in general, all of Enel¡¯s partners. It is the distinctive characteristic of the corporate culture of the men and women who work at Enel and contribute to our dedication to excellence and maintain it constant over time.
Since 2002, Enel has publicly reported its corporate social responsibility through the Sustainability Report, of which this is the seventh edition. It is an important appointment with all our stakeholders, which we have renewed year after year, constantly improving its reporting systems.
In managing the economic, social, and environmental parameters that characterize its corporate responsibility, Enel applies the same methods used to govern its business. The policy of sustainability is pursued and implemented through strategic choices, operative and financial plans, and investment reported with the utmost strictness and transparency in the annual edition of the Sustainability Report.
We are deeply engaged in disseminating the principles and practice of corporate social responsibility, bringing and integrating experiences of participation not only to the economic, but also to the social and cultural development of the countries where we have operations, while constantly respecting diversity. As a guarantee of such commitment, every year we establish our CSR objectives and priorities  in accordance with the Group¡¯s strategic policies, as well as with the principles of the UN¡¯s Global Compact, integrating them in our industrial plan and submitting them to planning and auditing on a semi-annual basis.
We want to pursue an attentive and transparent dialogue with our stakeholders
in all the communities and countries that host us, enhancing our corporate culture through this constant discussion. Above all, we believe it is essential to further strengthen our commitment to respect for individuals and their integrity, with particular regard to the implementation of training and prevention initiatives concerning occupational safety for all our employees and suppliers, as well as for the communities and countries in which we do business.
We shall revise our Code of Ethics, the pillar of our sustainability strategy, in 2009 in accordance with the best international practices and integrate it at the Group level. We shall improve, and extend to all the Group companies, the appropriate processes for ensuring transparency in our corporate actions, and prevent violations of human rights, especially with regard to child labor, incidents of corruption,
and business practices that are unfair or impede free competition.
Enel reaffirms its global commitment to environmental protection and the fight against climate change. Our environmental strategy is based on a mitigation plan that is consistent with our growing ability to apply the best available technologies for reducing the emission of greenhouse gases and other pollutants. Our objective is to be able to generate electricity at a low cost and with zero emissions. As an industry leader, we believe that commitment to the fight against climate change
is not only essential to protect the planet, but also, and especially, to ensure our competitiveness and further business growth for our Company.
For this reason, too, Enel considers the growth of the market for renewable energy to be essential, and has set up a dedicated company, Enel Green Power. Investment in the development of research and innovation in every field of our business is increasingly important to reduce their environmental impact: from clean coal, the capture and sequestration of CO2, and the field of hydrogen to the most advanced solar energy, systems for recharging electric cars, and smart grids that can manage the two-way flow of electricity that the spread of renewable energy entails. In this way, the efficiency of the system is maximized and the development of distributed generation is facilitated.
Our objectives are ambitious and complex, but within our reach. We are certain that our Company has the expertise, capabilities, and sense of responsibility necessary to achieve them, overcoming the difficulties that we will encounter along the way.
All the people who work in the Group in all the 22 countries in which we are present are, and will be, enthusiastically engaged in pursuing these objectives.

Enel is open to the world, a Company that is growing and developing organically and responsibly in the global energy market, increasing our capabilities and opportunities for development for all of us.
This is why we feel certain that we can commit ourselves to ensuring sustainable, economical, and accessible energy to future generations.

Chief Executive Officer Chairmain                                       and General Manager Piero Gnudi                                              				Fulvio Conti

----------------------------------------------------------------------------- Supplementary Information  
our Mission

Our mission at Enel is to generate and distribute value in the international energy market for the benefit of the needs of our customers, the investment of our shareholders, the competitiveness of the countries in which we do business, and the expectations of all the people who work with us. Enel operates in the service of communities, respecting the environment
and the safety of people, and with

a commitment to making the world a better place for future generations.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Enel 2009
A Letter to Our Stakeholders

During 2009, Enel completed its international expansion. Our Group is now present in 23 countries, with about 81,000 employees and 95.3 GW of installed capacity, including more than 34 GW generated from renewable energy sources (hydroelectric, geothermal, wind, solar, and biomass), which make us the world leader in the field of renewable energy. In Europe, Enel is the second largest listed utility in terms of operating income and installed capacity. Enel has grown and become a multinational, but always keeps in mind that growth must take place in tandem with corporate social responsibility and concern for the needs of all our stakeholders, in order to make our contribution to a sustainable future.
This commitment has been rewarded with important results. For the sixth year in a row we are present in the prestigious Dow Jones Sustainability  Indexes, the ethical investment funds show confidence in Enel and as of February 2010 constituted more than 18% of the share capital held by institutional investors, and our Sustainability Report is a significant reference, with over 450 indicators measuring our constant commitment to corporate social responsibility.
Looking ahead, we hope that the Sustainability Report can be gradually integrated with our financial reporting, thus making it easier to read and ensuring a better evaluation of the Company¡¯s actions.
The transparency of our actions is ensured by a complex and stringent system of corporate governance, which enables us to constantly steer our actions toward the creation of value for all our stakeholders while being aware of the social and environmental importance of the operations in which the Group is involved and reporting them regularly to the market and society.
In its management of the economic, social, and environmental parameters that characterize its corporate social responsibility, or CSR, Enel already applies the same diligence and methods it uses to govern its business. To guarantee these commitments, every year we establish our CSR objectives and priorities in accordance with both the Group¡¯s strategy and the principles of the U.N.¡¯s Global Compact, integrating this in our business plan and subjecting them to half-yearly planning and auditing. Likewise, our subsidiary Endesa, one of the largest electricity companies in the world and a leader in Spain and Latin America, has incorporated the values of CSR in its governance.
We want to be good citizens in all the countries that host our operations, constantly respecting diversity and trying to integrate with the different social situations. Several numbers show our ability to dialogue with society. In 2009, we involved more than 440,000 students throughout the world thanks to ¡°Play Energy¡±, an educational project about the world of energy. In Italy 100,000 people visited 64 Enel plants with ¡°Open Plants¡±, and in Chile 6,000 girls and boys participated in a soccer and volleyball tournament at facilities lit by Enel  and Endesa in cooperation with UNICEF and other institutions.
We are starting an internal communication campaign to disseminate knowledge of the new Code of Ethics among all our employees in order to regulate our corporate behavior according to uniform standards based on the utmost fairness.
Safety and the unique importance of the individual have always been at the heart of our values and distinguish Enel¡¯s corporate culture. The Company is deeply committed to disseminating and consolidating the awareness of safety issues, promoting responsible behavior by all its employees. The trend is one of the constant reduction of injuries at Enel. In the last five years (2005-2009), the Company has recorded a 56% reduction in the injury rate and 48% in the seriousness rate . In 2009, more than a million hours of training were dedicated to health and safety, with an expenditure of 105 million euro on safety activities. Other initiatives, such as the alternative procedure for settling disputes that we instituted together with all the Italian consumer associations, are aimed at satisfying our customers through a communicative and transparent approach. Enel¡¯s environmental strategy is consistent with our increasing ability to apply the best technologies available to reduce emissions of greenhouse gases and other pollutants. Our objective is to be able to generate electricity economically with close to zero emissions. In 2009, we were one of the 60 electricity companies of the 27 countries of the European Union that, as part of an initiative of Eurelectric, had their respective chief executive officers subscribe to a commitment to transform the European electricity industry into a ¡°neutral¡± one from the point of view of CO2 emissions by 2050.
Thanks to the significant percentage of our generating plants, including the nuclear ones, that are carbon-free, in 2009 we avoided the emission of about 100 million tons of CO2 into the air. In practice, it is as if we had cancelled the emissions of about 60 million cars.
We are also keeping our promise to future generations with our deep commitment to innovation, research, and the development of new technologies, for which we have planned investment amounting to about a billion euro for the period 2010-2014. In effect, we believe that research and innovation are important for improving existing technologies and exploring new ways to find satisfying solutions to the problems that the energy world will have to face in the near future.
We support technological initiatives that will lead to the generation of electricity with zero emissions, even with the use of fossil fuels. Together with Endesa, we are testing the most promising technologies for the capture and storage of CO2
(CCS), a solution that is essential for removing carbon from both the production
of electricity and heavy industry in general.

Another concrete example is the effort we have put into smart meters. Beginning in 2001, Enel has been a world pioneer in the creation and installation of this technology, which is decisive for an intelligent use of electricity. We now have 32 million smart meters in Italy and intend to install 13 million more of them for Endesa¡¯s customers.
As far as our research is concerned, there are numerous examples of excellence: electricity generation from hydrogen, low-enthalpy geothermal generation, concentrated photovoltaic solar generation, the innovative thermodynamic solar Archimede power plant, and multi-generation systems like the Diamond, as well as ? in the field of energy efficiency ? the LED technology of the Archilede streetlights, smart grids, and electric mobility systems.
We believe that the task of the electricity industry is to ensure a supply of sustainable, economical, and accessible energy, while seeking to carry out as best we can our mission to grow and develop. We are aware of not only the successes, but also of the inevitable problems that such a policy entails.
To meet this challenge, Enel intends to adopt all the possible solutions, from nuclear generation and clean coal to renewable energy and energy efficiency. We feel the great responsibility of guiding the change towards a better future, in which our prosperity will depend on our respect for the environment and the innovation that we are able to achieve today, as well as on a better use of our resources and the priority we are able to establish for the value of knowledge.

Piero Gnudi
Chairman

Fulvio Conti 
Chief Executive Officer 
and general Manager

----------------------------------------------------------------------------- Supplementary Information  

Our Mission

Enel¡¯s mission is to generate and distribute value on the international energy market, to the benefit of the requirements of
our customers, the investments of our shareholders, the competitiveness of the countries in which we operate, and the expectations of everyone who works with us. Enel acts in the service of communities, respecting the environment and the safety of people, with the commitment to ensure a better world to coming generations.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Enel 2010

Letter to our stakeholders

Enel is one of the world leaders in energy. Thanks to the dedication of more than
78,000 people, we are now an integrated Group operating along the entire elec- tricity value chain in 40 countries.
The international  expansion that we have experienced in the last few years has strengthened our conviction that the only way to ensure the success of our proj- ects is to make them an opportunity for growth  for both us and the entire com- munity around us. Our development plans are assessed not only in terms of the economic return for the Company, but also for the benefits they can create for all our stakeholders. We believe that the real indicator of success for an energy utility is to always act both responsibly and ethically by keeping the social value of our actions clearly in mind.
Sticking to these criteria requires all the talent and day-to-day commitment  of everyone in our Group. It requires a consistent and ambitious strategy based on three lines of action: innovation and excellence as drivers of sustainable growth  and transparent reporting of all our activities.

Innovation for sustainable growth
One of the great challenges that humanity must face in the coming years is to have at its disposal sufficient energy for the economic growth that is enabling millions of people to rise above the poverty threshold, while producing this energy in an environmentally sustainable way. Enel¡¯s growth objectives are based on a sustain- ability strategy that combines, on the one hand, the responsibility of ensuring se- cure and sufficient energy to meet the demand, which is increasing and shifting according to changes in the global economy, and on the other the necessity of re- sponding to the challenge of climate change by making an essential contribution to the drastic reduction of polluting emissions. We are convinced that operating excellence and technological innovation are the most efficient levers for making this balance possible. Our commitment is therefore addressed to the key fields of energy innovation: from renewable energy sources, energy efficiency, and energy accumulation to the reduction of emissions by conventional technologies, smart grids, and electric mobility.
On the renewable energy front, Enel Green Power remains a world leader in the industry, among other things thanks to the reorganization that preceded its listing on the stock exchange. The Enel Group¡¯s installed renewable capacity in Europe and the Americas (hydro, geothermal, wind, photovoltaic, and biomass) already exceeds 34 GW, out of the Group¡¯s total capacity of about 97.3 GW.
Also important  is our commitment  to make conventional energy sources ¡°clean¡±. With a plan for investing almost a billion euro in technology in the period 2011-2015, 
we are increasing the energy efficiency of our thermal production  and trying out the most promising technologies for capturing and storing CO2. We recently in- augurated in Brindisi the largest pilot plant in Europe of this technology, whose
development will enable us to continue to use an indispensable source like coal by drastically abating its emissions.
We shall continue  to concentrate on zero-emissions technologies and the im- provement  of traditional sources, with  the goal of increasing the share of our generation that does not produce greenhouse gases, which is already about 45%. Meanwhile, and until we have become an industry that is ¡°neutral¡± with regard to CO2 emissions, we shall continue to partially compensate for them through  the introduction of projects and best practices in Eastern Europe and in less developed countries, using the mechanisms introduced by the Kyoto Protocol (the Clean De- velopment Mechanism and Joint Implementation),  in the adoption  of which the Group is a global leader.
Our commitment to innovation for sustainability does not end with the generation of electricity. Enel is also a benchmark for smart grids, whose spread will enable us to evolve towards an integrated  and multi-directional distribution system that is able to manage the interactions between producers and consumers of energy in real time. Smart grids will ensure more balanced distributed  generation and will allow customers themselves to become producers of clean energy. Thanks to the 33 million electronic meters that have been installed in Italy since 2001 and the 13 million that are being installed in Spain, Enel has already put in place ? ahead of the other companies ? an important  component of the infrastructure that will make possible the development  of active grids and has begun to provide post- meter services aimed at getting  customers to use energy more responsibly and rationally.
The objective of sustainability also regards the streets of our cities. For this reason Enel is laying the foundations for a radical change in the way we move around on them. With our E-Mobility Italy project in Italy and MOVELE project in Spain, we are constructing the recharging infrastructure that will allow people in 6 large Italian and Spanish cities to use zero-impact electric cars.
Responsibility also means using innovation to improve the living conditions of the poorest communities. Electricity is an extraordinary driver of growth and prosper- ity. For this reason we believe it is our duty to cooperate with the governments of the countries in which we are present to close the energy gap separating the 1.4 billion people in the world who still lack access to electricity. Among the numerous innovative solutions that we have tested, the Ecoelce project in Brazil stands out. Recognized by the UN¡¯s 2008 World Business and Development Awards as one of the 25 most sustainable innovations of the last 25 years in the country, the project enables recyclable waste to be ¡°exchanged¡± for discounts on electricity bills, thus encouraging responsible waste management, while at the same time providing financial support for families.

Excellence and growth inside the Group
If we want to be engines of innovation in the world that surrounds us, we must first of all be bearers of change ourselves, and therefore focus above all on a strong and shared Group identity that is able to generate value from diversity and sees in integration a powerful engine for disseminating the best practices. The foundations of this culture are those that have characterized Enel for many years: a policy of operating excellence, service quality, and the improvement of results, together with the utmost concern for the protection of the safety of the people who work at and with Enel.
On the last aspect we have set ourselves the most ambitious goal possible, which requires the utmost commitment  of everyone, at every level of our organization: to become a Zero accidents company. To achieve it, numerous detailed, cross-com- pany safety projects have been initiated throughout the Group with excellent re- sults, which have created over the years a constant trend of decreasing injury rates. In effect, injury frequency decreased by about 23% with respect to 2009, while the seriousness rate fell by 7%.

Transparency and accountability
In addition to the potential  provided by technology and our efforts to boost the internal growth  of the Group, our commitment  to sustainability is also focused on the transparency of our corporate actions, which is ensured by a strict corpo- rate governance system and a solid reporting  system based on rigorous criteria of objectivity. In effect, the Group¡¯s Sustainability Report achieves the A+ level of compliance with  the sustainability reporting  guidelines of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI). In keeping with our vision, according to which sustainability con- sists in the combination of economic, social, and environmental aspects, we have initiated  a process that in time will lead us to develop a single reporting  system for the Group, in which the economic and financial indicators are integrated with the sustainability ones. In this way, all our stakeholders will have an increasingly integrated  view of the Company¡¯s overall performance and value. This will be a decisive step and will confirm the integration  of sustainability in our way of doing business, which is already recognized by the ¡°ethical¡±  funds among our institu- tional shareholders (about 17% of the institutional floating capital at the end of 2010) and our presence in the prestigious Dow Jones sustainability indexes for the seventh year in a row. Furthermore, in January 2011 Enel became part of the Global Compact LEAD. This initiative of the United Nations¡¯ Global Compact brings together the 56 best companies in the world, which are benchmarks for economic, social, and environmental sustainability.
Precisely the ambition to constitute a benchmark and the courage to assume one¡¯s share of responsibility in facing the challenges of global development must guide our day-to-day work to supply reliable, efficient, and sustainable energy. In effect, it is the task of a responsible large company like ours to open new routes to the prosperity of the future and ensure that the energy we produce is the energy of change towards a sustainable future.

Chairman
Piero Gnudi

Fulvio Conti
Chief Executive Officer and General Manager 

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Enel 2011

Letter to our Stakeholders

In 2011 the global panorama was characterized by a persistent phase of economic and financial uncertainty  which meant limited  growth  in developed economies, including  those in Western Europe, and rather more vigorous growth in the emerging economies of Eastern Europe, Asia and Latin America.
The energy sector itself was affected by some significant events which contributed to a profound  change in its prospects. Among these, the tsunami which struck the Fukushima Daiichi nuclear power plant ? following the earthquake which devastated Japan ? seems to have slowed down the development of this technology worldwide.
Following this event and the consequent debate on the safety of nuclear power plants, some European countries decided to review their own energy policies. For example, in Italy the refe- rendum of June 2011 marked the country¡¯s, and Enel¡¯s, withdrawal from its nuclear energy deve- lopment program.
To these factors we may add the events of the Arab spring which highlighted the importance of the security of energy supplies for European countries.
In this turbulent  scenario, Enel continued  to represent a reliable international  company and a credible industrial Group which has been involved in the development of Italy and of many other countries for half a century.
Enel today means bringing energy to over 61 million customers every day, thanks to the work of over 75,000 employees; operating along the entire electricity value chain in 40 countries; having a technologically and geographically balanced production  mix, with over 40% of generation in 2011 being zero emission; being a good citizen and promoting the welfare of the communities around us. These are the achievements that we take pride in and which drive Enel to be a key energy player worldwide.
Being a strong and credible company, in a still highly uncertain global situation, offers a sense of stability and security. Enel, for example, was one of the most active participants in the discussions between business and the G20 at the most recent ministerial meetings of the International Ener- gy Agency (IEA) and at the climate change conferences in Cancun and Durban.
The climate is a significant variable which affects our decisions and our performance. In particular, during 2011, the lack of rainfall caused a significant reduction in hydroelectric production, which was only partially offset by the marked increase (over 30%) in production  from other renewable sources that are part of our power generation capacity. Overall, this caused a 5.4% increase in the Group¡¯s CO2 emissions.
Despite last year¡¯s performance, Enel confirms its commitment  to combating climate change and its long-term strategy to limit CO2 emissions. Compared to 1990 (the base year for the Kyoto Pro- tocol) the Enel Group¡¯s CO2 emissions have fallen by 34% and this downward  trend will continue in future years with targeted investment and set timeframes.

Leadership in renewables and in innovation
Leadership in innovation is one of the priorities of the 2012-2016 Business Plan, a commitment which Enel has been tenaciously pursuing for some time with concrete investments. Electronic meters, for example, have enabled us to introduce the grids of the future. Enel is a world leader in the introduction of this technology, having installed 36 million meters in Italy since 2001, while another 13 million are currently being installed in Spain, besides numerous pilot projects for their use also in Latin America. To- gether with remote monitoring, electronic meters will be the cornerstone of smart grids which will, in their turn, be fundamental elements in the infrastructure and economic growth of numerous countri- es. Taking this as our starting point, we are launching pilot projects for the development of smart grids in Spain, Italy and Brazil.
Renewables represent another  driver for sustainable development.  Enel Green Power, the Group company which focuses solely on renewables, operates in 16 countries using all the main generation technologies. This geographic and technological diversification allows us to make the best possible use of the continuous growth in renewables. Our steadfast commitment is to making these energy sources not only sustainable, but also increasingly competitive compared to traditional  generation technolo- gies, by increasing their efficiency and reliability.
We are also very focused on the issue of energy efficiency which is one of the most effective ways to reduce emissions. It is our belief that increasing efficiency must involve all the elements in the value chain, from electricity generation to transmission and distribution grids up to end uses, such as heating and air-conditioning systems, indoor and outdoor lighting, household utilities and mobility.
In this sense, Enel¡¯s commitment is achieving very significant results on all directions, such as, for exam- ple, the constant improvement in the average yield on our thermoelectric capacity and the increase of approximately 10% in ISO 14001 certified net efficient capacity, which must be added to the constant improvement in the environmental performance of our power generation capacity. In the future we aim to reduce even further the environmental impact by investing in the innovative technology of car- bon capture and storage which we are already testing.
Our commitment to innovation continues with the development of projects for electric mobility throu- gh agreements with leading vehicle manufacturers such as Mercedes, Piaggio and Renault. The philo- sophy of sustainable urban development also underpins the realization of the smart city concept, for which Enel is a world leader in developing demonstration programs.

One Company, One Ethics, One Report
Being part of a community means working with our stakeholders in rigorous compliance with best go- vernance practice and maintaining transparency and accountability.
Today in Enel sustainability is part of our strategy, processes and daily activities and represents one of the mainstays of our Business Plan. We are convinced that corporate responsibility has a direct impact on competitiveness and long-term value creation.
The cornerstone of our Corporate Social Responsibility is the Code of Ethics, which summarizes the Group¡¯s commitments and responsibilities in conducting its business and which is binding on all the companies in which Enel holds a majority stake, as is the Zero Tolerance of Corruption Plan. The same concept of global standardization lies behind the creation of the ¡°One Company¡± project which seeks to redraw the Group¡¯s organizational model, in order to ensure more streamlined and effective decision- making processes, by sharing common systems and conduct. The aim is to build, day by day, a Group identity which has a solid common base, but which at the same time can create value from diversity by joining the global and local dimensions.
This organizational development, in building the Enel of tomorrow, still puts the safety of its employees and external collaborators first, as shown by the number of dedicated training hours (almost 1.1 million in 2011) and the constantly falling trend in accidents, with a 14.5% reduction in the accident rate. The  ¡°zero accident¡± target is being pursued with increasing determination also in regard to our suppliers¡¯
employees: in 2011 the accident rate at contracting companies fell by 15.7% compared to 2010.
In keeping with the vision of an increasingly integrated Group, we are also moving towards the so-called ¡°One Report¡±, with the aim of setting out both our financial and non-financial performance in a single document, so as to allow shareholders and stakeholders a complete overview of the value created by the Company. To this end, the Report on Operations in the 2011 Annual Report includes a section dedi- cated to sustainability together with a set of quantitative performance indicators. Enel is also involved in the G4 Consortium of the GRI (Global Reporting Initiative) and in the Pilot Programme of the IIRC (Inter- national Integrated Reporting Council), in order to help establish an internationally agreed framework and guidelines for the integrated reporting of tomorrow.
In addition, we have strengthened our commitment to transparency and communication with Socially Responsible Investment (SRI) indexes and funds. Since 2006, Enel¡¯s Sustainability Report has never failed to achieve an A+ rating in application of the GRI guidelines. Enel is also part of the Dow Jones Sustaina- bility Indexes for the eighth year running and in 2011 was readmitted to be part of the FTSE4Good index and is the only utility in the world to have been admitted to the Carbon Performance Leadership Index of the CDP (Carbon Disclosure Project).

Combating energy poverty and creating shared value
More widespread access to energy can improve the lives of billions of people worldwide. In its World Energy Outlook for 2011 the International Energy Agency (IEA) estimates that 1.3 billion people curren- tly have no access to electricity and 2.7 billion use fuels such as traditional biomass to cook on polluting and inefficient stoves, with fatal consequences for two million people a year.
It is also on the basis of these statistics that the General Assembly of the United Nations declared 2012 ¡°International Year of Sustainable Energy for All¡± and called on institutions, companies and civil society to collaborate to extend access to energy, improve energy efficiency and increase the use of renewables. The Enel Group, as a member of the Global Compact LEAD, supports combating energy poverty with the ¡°Enabling Electricity¡± program that aims to facilitate the access of infrastructure to electricity, encourage low-cost access to electricity in low-income areas and build up and share professional know-how  and skills in the energy sector, in order to create shared value.
As the history of the previous century shows, the spread of electricity was the driver for economic, social and industrial growth. At a time of economic recession, an efficient energy market can, for industrialized countries, go hand in hand with economic recovery and, for emerging and poorer countries, be a source of growth by allowing wider access to goods and services.
We are convinced that the creation of value for business becomes sustainable and long-lasting if, at the same time, it becomes the creation of value for the community and for the environment. In 1962 Enel came into being in Italy with the aim of completing the electrification of the country, equipping it with leading-edge infrastructure and bringing electricity wherever it was needed. Today, fifty years on, Enel is renewing its mission and its commitment to the benefit of global communities and future generations.

Chairman
Paolo Andrea Colombo

Chief Executive Officer and General Manager 
Fulvio Conti

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------Enel 2012

During 2012, the Enel Group confirmed its commitment to Corporate Social Responsibility, by putting economic, environmental and social aspects at the heart of its industrial strategy.

For the ninth year running, Enel is in the Dow Jones Sustainability Index which includes the best companies in the world classified in accordance with stringent economic, social and environmental sustainability criteria. The Group has been reconfirmed in the FTSE4Good index for the results achieved on environmental sustainability, relations with stakeholders, respect of human rights, quality of working conditions and fighting corruption. In addition, the Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP) has confirmed Enel among the best sustainable companies in the world. At the same time, as part of ever increasing transparency, theGroup has continued to develop new reporting frontiers, by adhering to the Consortium G4 of the GRI (Global Reporting Initiative) and the pilot program of the IIRC (International Integrated Reporting Council).

Enel¡¯s commitment is confirmed by the trust and attention reserved to it by socially responsible investors (SRI), which rose in 2012 and now represent around 14.6% of our institutional shareholders. This commitment has been maintained in recent years despite a global macroeconomic scenario marked by a climate of economic and financial uncertainty. A general fall in consumption in Europe, with Italy and Spain particularly hard hit, has been contrasted by a steadily positive trend in the emerging countries of Asia, Latin America, East Europe, and in the renewables sector.

In order to respond to these challenges and continue to be competitive in the medium-long term, companies must inevitably put at the center of their business a policy to respect the environment, in line with the needs of local communities and to support their economic and social development. In Enel we are convinced of this and it is for this reason that we intend to continue with our commitment to sustainability, listening to and talking to all our interlocutors in complete transparency in order to understand their principal requests so as to integrate them into our strategic priorities, as we have done this year through the materiality analysis, in order to continue to generate profit for shareholders and shared value for stakeholders.

We are convinced that the creation of shared value implies, as an essential condition, solid governance which is not limited to simple bureaucratic management of processes, but which is capable of supporting our credibility on markets and promoting our accountability with investors. In this light, four committees have been set up from within the Enel Board of Directors, consisting solely or mainly of independent directors. In addition, in order to guarantee equal opportunities in access to governance bodies, the presence of women on the Boards of subsidiaries has increased.

For us transparent governance of the Company and correct conduct are fundamental in the everyday running of our business, in order to be good citizens in the 40 countries where we are present, respecting the rules, guided by our values: results-orientation, respect, focus on people, ethics, and social responsibility. 

These are values which are grounded in our Code of Ethics, in the Zero Tolerance of Corruption Plan, in the so-called 231 Compliance Model, as well as in the health and safety policy, with the concrete objective of achieving ¡°zero accidents¡±. These actions involve not only all the women and men of Enel, but also all those who work with us and for us, making a priority of people, respect for their integrity and their fundamental rights.

In line with this commitment, the Enel Board of Directors has approved the Policy on Human Rights which brings into operation the United Nations Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights. Our Group is not satisfied with mere compliance with national laws, but is an active promoter of these rights, regardless of their formal transposition into the various legal orders, since rights need continuous realization ¡®in the field¡¯, through constant dialogue and discussion with communities.

On the strength of our values and with transparent and solid governance, we intend to continue with the strategy of creating value by confirming our commitment in the renewables sector and in the growing markets of Latin America and East Europe, which will make an increasingly important contribution to the Group¡¯s results. 

In order to continue to defend margins and free up resources to dedicate to the areas with the highest growth potential, increasing internal efficiency and reducing costs are essential choices. At the same time, the generation of cash flows on mature markets and the maximization of synergies will go alongside a selective and flexible investment policy which will enable improvement in our Group¡¯s financial profile and asset structure.

In addition, Enel will continue to pay utmost attention to combating climate change. For a number of years we have had in place a long-term strategy to limit, reduce and offset greenhouse gas emissions in all the countries where we operate, with the aim of making our generation plant carbon neutral by 2050. 

An integral part of this commitment is the Climate Strategy, which envisages action plans covering the whole production process: from production to distribution, from sales to end users, to the trading of emission rights. This has already enabled us, on the one hand, to reduce specific
CO2 emissions by 32% compared to 1990 (the base year for the Kyoto Protocol). In 2012, the percentage of ¡°zero emission¡± energy out of total energy production in the Group was over 42%. In addition, again in 2012, Enel achieved the objective which it had set of reducing the intensity of CO2 emission by 7% compared to 2007 and confirmed the 15% reduction target for 2020 compared to the 2007 levels.

On the renewables front, Enel is committed to an approximately 6 billion euro investment plan over the next 5 years, aimed at promoting all the best technologies, mainly on the highest growth markets and where there is greater availability of natural resources.

In addition, Enel intends to continue to support technological innovation aimed at making electricity generation increasingly efficient and environmentally sustainable and producing innovative solutions for all our customers: from energy efficiency to electric-powered transport, from smart grids to smart cities.

All this is to build a future in which it will be possible to combine sustainability, efficiency and quality of life; a future in which citizens will become responsible and active consumers, promoting rational use of energy with increasingly lower operating costs.

A vision of the future which has driven and must continue to drive our Corporate Social Responsibility on an increasingly global scale, in order to satisfy the energy needs of 1.3 billion people worldwide who still have no access to energy. For this reason, the United Nations General Assembly has dedicated the 2014-2024 period to fighting energy poverty, declaring it the ¡°International Decade of Sustainable Energy for All¡±.

Enel, as a member of the United Nations Global Compact LEAD, once again offers its know-how and knowledge through the ¡°Enabling Electricity¡± program which focuses on people living in isolated areas and suburban and rural areas around the great urban conglomerations. Currently
over one million people worldwide benefit from the Group¡¯s innovative projects to favor access to energy: with Enabling Electricity, Enel intends to double these figures by 2014. The program works in three directions: from projects which guarantee technological and infrastructure access to projects which remove economic barriers in low income areas, and finally initiatives to develop and share know-how and professional skills in the energy sector.

We are aware that in order to continue to be a leader in the global energy market we must be capable of increasingly integrating sustainability into our business model. The growth and economic development of a multinational such as Enel are linked to the ability not only to produce value for shareholders and all the stakeholders, but also to contribute to making the world a better place, facing the environmental and social problems of the countries and communities where we work, involving and motivating the people who work with us and guaranteeing for everyone that each person¡¯s dignity will be respected. We are looking to the future, a future we want to contribute to.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------Enel 2013

For over ten years, sustainability in Enel has been based on a solid ethical system, a set of citizenship rules which everyone who works at Enel and for Enel must respect and apply in their everyday business, a distinctive feature of belonging to the Company.

Businesses, especially the leading multinationals, are increasingly a crucial intersection where the economic world and society can meet and discuss issues. For this reason Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) is an absolute priority for company leaders in building an effective and virtuous business model.

Enel has adopted a careful strategy of CSR planning, monitoring and reporting, in other words covering all the policies on transparency, combating corruption, protecting the environment, and relations with the communities and with the people who work in and with the Company, including suppliers. We have chosen to act always as ¡°good citizens¡±, respecting the rules and laws of the countries where we work, following a set of shared values: ethics, respect, paying attention to people, social responsibility and results-orientation.

These values are the basis of the tools which the Group has adopted over the years: the Code of Ethics, Zero Tolerance of Corruption, the 231 Compliance Program and, most recently, the Policy on Human Rights, approved by the Board of Directors in 2013, which includes the United Nations Guidelines on Business and Human Rights.

In 2013, as part of the due diligence on human rights, we started the risk assessment process to identify the main human rights risks which the Company may run in carrying out its activities.

Multinationals which invest in sustainability nowadays set themselves the ambitious goal of achieving responsible profit, directing their business towards the so-called ¡°creation of shared value¡±. Corporate policies and practices therefore seek to increase the Company¡¯s competitiveness by improving the economic and social conditions of the communities where it operates.

The need for this new business model has also been recognized by the United Nations in negotiating the new ¡°Sustainable Development Goals¡± for the post-2015 agenda, and by the European Union in its 2020 Strategy. 

Enel has taken on board all these indications, acting in particular on two key processes: the supply chain and risk management. Likewise, our subsidiary Enel Green Power has established an action plan for the short, medium and long term to guarantee the integration of sustainability into its own processes and to create shared value by making rational use of the available resources.

In addition, Enel will continue to share its own sustainability know-how at regional, national and international level, by taking part in prestigious networks such as the United Nations Global Compact and Global Compact LEAD. 

Last year Enel was one of the first companies to confirm its participation in the LEAD Board Programme which is designed for companies that are involved in the Global Compact LEAD and which aims to provide Boards of Directors with analyses on sustainability and on the need to integrate sustainability into corporate strategies.

The innovative policies which we have adopted in terms of CSR have enabled us to become acknowledged leaders in the processes for planning, monitoring, and reporting sustainability,
gaining approval worldwide.

In order to improve the monitoring of sustainability performance and guarantee the traceability of CSR information, we are also creating a new data collection system. In addition, as regards reporting standards, Enel will join other global business leaders in the reporting field by taking part in the pioneering GRI G4 program.

The tools that we have adopted, such as for example the materiality matrix, have allowed us, starting from last year, to map the strategic objectives of the business and to match them to the expectations and needs of our stakeholders. In this way we can identify the CSR projects and initiatives which are considered priorities.

An example of this is our CSR ¡°ENabling ELectricity¡± program, through which Enel contributes to the United Nations ten year program ¡°Sustainable Energy for All¡± (2014-2024). In 2013 under this program we took part in over 30 projects in 20 countries, achieving the target of 2 million beneficiaries a year ahead of time.

The next CSR activities will be developed in three areas which are considered priorities: enabling access to electricity for lower-income consumers, implementing support programs for the education and training of professional figures in emerging countries, and realizing social inclusion projects and projects to support economic growth in the areas where Enel operates.

Over the years, Enel has strengthened the relationship between sustainability and the financial world, creating value from the integrated communication of the Company¡¯s financial and non-financial results. The drive towards the highest sustainability standards, which Enel started eleven years ago, has been rewarded by the interest of socially responsible investment funds which, despite the difficult international economic situation, are continuing to increase in number. At December 31, 2013 our shareholders included 117 Socially Responsible Investors (up from 108 in 2012), representing around 15.6% of the identified institutional shareholdings (compared to 14.6% in 2012). In 2013, for the tenth year running, Enel was included in the Dow Jones Sustainability Index, a key index for the markets, which includes the best companies in the world in terms of economic, social and environmental sustainability. Enel was also reconfirmed in the FTSE4Good index and is involved in the CDP.

Enel¡¯s commitment to sustainability is also reflected in its medium/long-term strategy to combat climate change, with the aim of its power generation plant achieving carbon neutrality by 2050. An integral part of this commitment is the Climate Strategy, which envisages action plans covering the whole sector: from production to distribution, from sales to end users, to emission rights trading. This has enabled Enel to reduce its specific CO2 emissions by 37% compared to 1990 (the base year for the Kyoto Protocol), and to confirm the target to cut CO2 emissions by 15% by 2020 compared to 2007 levels. In 2013, the percentage of ¡°zero emission¡± power generation out of total Group production exceeded 46%, and the installed renewable production capacity reached 36.9 GW. For future years Enel has planned a further 6-billion euro investment in renewables, to promote all the best technologies, mainly in the markets with the highest growth potential and which have more available natural resources.

Technological innovation will allow us to make electricity production increasingly efficient and environmentally sustainable, by putting forward innovative solutions for all customers, from energy efficiency to electric transport, from smart grids to smart cities: all technologies in which Enel is a world leader.

In order to maintain our leadership in the global energy market and to achieve the best possible business results, we must continue in our drive to integrate sustainability into the business model and into corporate strategy.

The growth and economic development of a multinational such as Enel cannot be tied solely to its ability to produce value for shareholders. Rather, we want and we must contribute to making the world a better place, drawing on our culture, our values, our way of doing business, to the benefit of the Company, our colleagues, and the institutions and citizens with whom we interact.
--------------------------------------------------------------------------- National Grid PLC 2007-2008

To Our Stakeholders

¡°We, at National Grid, will be the foremost international electricity and gas company, delivering unparalleled efficiency, reliability and safety, vital to the well-being of our customers and communities.

¡°We are committed to being an innovative leader in energy management and to safeguarding our global environment  for future generations.¡±

This is National Grid¡¯s vision ? what we aspire to be and how we would like to be perceived by the world. I¡¯ve begun with our vision, because everything you¡¯re going to read in this report about National Grid stems from
this and every step we take is with the view that it will bring us closer to fulfilling this vision.

I hope our vision gives you a feel for the scope of what we¡¯re trying to achieve and how we believe we will create value for all of our stakeholders. Yes, we want to be efficient, reliable and safe ¡¦ but we also want to be innovative, and we are firmly committed to providing for the ¡®well-being of our customers and communities and to safeguarding our global environment¡¯.

These are integral parts of our company¡¯s corporate responsibility ¡¦ and we intend to keep these important commitments at the forefront of all our plans and actions, now and in the future.

So, how will we get there?

National Grid took a major step on its growth journey when we acquired KeySpan in August 2007. And we are focused on making sure we continue to strengthen our commitment to corporate responsibility across our global operations as our company continues to grow:
¡ß We have a strategy where we are focused on our core electricity and gas businesses in the UK and US. We¡¯re integrated across global

lines of business. And we¡¯re taking a disciplined approach to how we do our jobs, plan our finances and invest our money.
¡ß We¡¯re guided by our core values:  respect others and value their diversity; take ownership for driving performance; demonstrate integrity and openness in all relationships; and work as one team, one National Grid.
¡ß We¡¯re transforming our business so we operate in the most efficient, cost effective and environmentally sound ways. We¡¯re looking, wherever possible, to do things in a consistent way, so customers, employees and shareholders in the UK and US enjoy the same positive experience of National Grid. This means we¡¯re focused on identifying and implementing best practice, company wide.
¡ß We continue to work under our framework for responsible business where we seek to achieve sustainable growth, profits with
responsibility and solid investments in the future.
¡ß We have a new brand position that revolves around the power of action.  The power
of action means we¡¯re about more than words; we¡¯re taking action to continuously improve our safety performance, protect the environment, delight our customers and care for our communities. We¡¯re also committed to
becoming more inclusive and diverse, providing energy solutions and, of course, acting on
our vision
¡ß And ... we have also agreed on a new community impact framework focusing on areas that are core to our business: energy and environment, and education and skills. This
will be implemented across our UK and US businesses and there will be a strong focus on employee volunteering, very much demonstrating the power of action.

How did we do in 2007/08?

As you¡¯ll see in this report ? National Grid¡¯s seventh global Corporate Responsibility Report ? we have taken several positive steps in the past year:
¡ß Established  a climate change initiative with ambitious emission reduction targets and carbon budgets across our lines of business
¡ß Expanded  other environmental efforts in our continuous efforts to help save the environment ¡¦ and save money
¡ß Continued  to develop our employees¡¯ talent to empower and equip them to meet our stringent operating standards
¡ß Strategically  refocused  and strengthened our commitment to local communities.

National Grid is also once again working cooperatively with a host of community, environmental, regulatory, government and energy industry partners, in both the UK and US, towards mutual goals.

So read on to find out more about National Grid¡¯s journey towards sustainable growth. It¡¯s a journey that will
position us appropriately for the future. Most importantly, it¡¯s a journey where we will build an even stronger, more responsible company that¡¯s working to better serve
our employees, customers, suppliers, shareholders, communities, you.

Sincerely,

Steve Holliday, Chief Executive

--------------------------------------------------------------------------- National Grid PLC 2009-2010

Sustainable futures

National Grid lies at the heart of delivering energy in the UK and in the northeastern part of the US. We ensure that safe, reliable and affordable energy is available to maintain the wellbeing of our customers and communities.
We do this through not only maintaining our infrastructure, but also through designing and building the next generation energy networks. As we deliver these essential networks, we are committed to being a responsible and sustainable business by owning and positively in?uencing the social, environmental and economic effects of our business activities.

We are very proud of our 2009/10 performance. This year, we achieved a 40% improvement in our employee safety, as our lost time injury frequency rate declined from 0.25 to 0.15. We also achieved our reliability targets across all our business, both UK and US, for the first time ever. We did this whilst continuing to achieve the trajectory needed to meet our climate change objective of 80% reduction of our greenhouse gas emissions by 2050.

National Grid committed to taking a leading position, alongside governments and regulators, in shaping and delivering the future energy landscape. The energy sector is at an historic turning point with climate change targets, the concern for energy security and the need for affordable energy driving changes in the sourcing and provision of energy to the end user. In the UK there is broad consensus that about 25% of electricity generation will close in the next decade and the decline in gas production is well known.

We plan to invest ?22 billion over the next five years to help the UK meet all of these objectives. Our essential investment will reinforce our gas and electricity networks to allow new generation (including renewables) to be connected and enable gas to flow from new sources. Last year we had requests to connect more than 33 GW of generation to our UK transmission network and signed contracts to connect 22 GW of those requests. This investment will also allow us the opportunity to further our corporate responsibility by investing in new, environmentally responsible technology, such as pipelines needed to carry CO2 to enable carbon capture and storage. In the US we continue to maintain our networks and build assets to meet customers¡¯ needs within the regulatory framework. All of this investment is made whilst meeting our corporate responsibility Framework values.

We are proud of our top-tier status in the Business in the Community Corporate Responsibility Index for the eighth consecutive year.

We continue to make progress as a responsible business; last year we listened to our stakeholders and updated our Framework for Responsible Business. It now provides a clearer line of sight from our vision to how we manage our business, strengthening its value as a blueprint for our corporate responsibility activities. Looking forward, we will continue to focus on improving our stakeholders¡¯ experience by enhancing our approach to community relations and customer service.

As we engage with our stakeholders, we are working hard to make sure they understand the overall value that National Grid delivers and will continue to deliver. This report will help to give our stakeholders a clearer picture of what we stand for, what we do
and how it affects their lives. We will continue to work to become a trusted and innovative partner in meeting the changing needs of our customers and local communities.

I hope you find this summary review engaging and useful. You can find the full report on our website, with many more details about our progress and commitments. We very much welcome any comments you may have.

Steve Holliday Chief Executive

--------------------------------------------------------------------------- National Grid PLC 2011-2012

I am delighted to present National Grid's 2011/12 corporate responsibility (CR) report, our eleventh global annual online report.
We remain at the heart of one of the greatest challenges facing our society; connecting new sustainable energy solutions for the future, and the development of modern energy networks fit for the 21st century.? 

The trust and confidence of our stakeholders remains critical as we continue to increase our investment in our networks.? We can only retain our right to operate by working to the highest standards, by trusting our employees to do the right thing and by running our company sustainably.
Before previewing some of areas covered in this online CR report, I want to take a moment to reflect first on safety at National Grid.
While our employee lost time injury frequency rate was 0.18, the same as 2010/11, this year we have seen accidents leading to the deaths of two members of the public in the US and one contractor in the UK. Any fatality in any way associated with our business, whether an employee, contractor or member of the public, is deeply regrettable.
Safety is a top priority and it will remain at the forefront of our objectives. The Board¡¯s governance arrangements for the oversight of safety are being strengthened and I am personally leading a new drive to improve further our safety performance. We will always be exposed to high-risk working environments on a daily basis and embedding safety procedures and principles in our people is a key part of improving our performance. We are determined to foster the belief across our businesses that all accidents can be avoided.
Investing in our people
National Grid remains committed to developing all of our people to the best of their abilities.
National Grid employs over 25,000 people in the UK and US, many with vocational qualifications, to design, build, operate and maintain the nation¡¯s gas & electricity infrastructure, connecting people to the energy they use. 
Over the next nine years in the UK alone, we are looking to recruit in the region of 2500 engineers, a mixture of experienced engineers and development programme trainees.? We?endeavour to improve continually the quality of our new talent development. Our graduate scheme is well regarded and we have continued to be an employer of choice. In 2012, we were ranked 84 in the Times Top 100 graduate employers, an improvement on 2011 when we entered the Top 100 for the first time. Our graduate retention levels are good, standing at 86%.
In the US, we have completed major renovations at our Millbury learning centre in Massachusetts. The facility has become a centralised cutting-edge learning centre for all New England technical training. In the UK, we completed work on our new electricity transmission switchgear training centre and accommodation facilities at Eakring and work on a similar gas transmission training centre will soon start. In total, this will represent an investment of over ?12 million.
I am also please to continue with our wider work in investing in People.? In November 2011, the Young Offender Programme celebrated the 2000th graduate through the Programme.? The Programme has expanded to over 80 companies in diverse industries and from 4 prisons to 22 prisons and now covers all of the UK.
Connecting new sustainable energy solutions for the future and modern energy networks fit for the 21st century are scientific and engineering challenges. Society needs people with the awareness, enthusiasm, skills and ability to meet these challenges. At National Grid, we are also actively working with schools to bring alive for young people the opportunities which exist for them via the different routes into industry. 
Environmental responsibility
We have continued with our climate change and energy efficiency programmes in order to achieve our targets of a 45% reduction in Scope 1 and 2 greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions by 2020 and 80% by 2050. Our emissions for 2011/12 were 8.7 million tonnes carbon dioxide equivalent. This represents a 55% reduction on our 1990 base line. 
In the US, we are investing in oil to gas conversions in customer premises and installing gas infrastructure and services to support new construction. Over the last three years, we have connected over 120,000 new gas heating customers. And we recently installed 32 new electric vehicle charging stations in Massachusetts under the Coulomb Technologies¡¯ ChargePoint America programme. Through programmes such as these, we offer our customers more sustainable energy options that help to protect the environment.
Working with communities
We believe that helping local businesses is one of the best ways to help the communities we serve.
In the US, since 2003, our economic development grants have totalled $53 million and have helped create or retain more than 19,000 jobs. In December 2011, we provided $1 million to Albany, New York for use in their State Street revitalisation. The grant will help build new footpaths, underground conduits, decorative lighting and other amenities. This revitalisation programme is expected to help the city¡¯s economic growth by attracting more businesses, residents and visitors to the area. 
In the UK, we remain at the heart of one of the greatest challenges facing our society; connecting new sustainable energy solutions for the future - and the development of modern energy networks fit for the 21st century.? As a result, we will be investing ?31bn in our UK regulated networks.
This year has marked a major landmark for us with the opening of our first energy education centre in Willesden, London, which has been developed in parallel with our London power tunnels project. The education centre is designed to help local schools and other visitors understand the future energy challenge; how can we balance affordability with sustainability and the role we will play in making sure we have energy security in the future. New interactive tools, specially designed games and on site experts are hopefully able to inspire today¡¯s school children to choose? science and engineering courses, helping to ensure we have the specialist skills needed to operate our energy system in the future.
These are just a few of the highlights from 2011/12. I invite you to explore this online report to find out more. 
I would welcome your feedback on our commitment, actions and performance ? do please write to me or contact us at csrinfo@ngrid.com .
Steve Holliday
Chief Executive
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------National Grid 2012-2013

Impressions and reflections on 2012/13

This has been a significant year for National Grid, which has seen substantial change in both the UK and US. 

One of the most important changes we have seen is Ofgem¡¯s introduction of RIIO, a new eight year regulatory framework in the UK. In February 2013, we agreed all the UK RIIO price control arrangements proposed by Ofgem. The Board believes the combination of revenue allowances and incentive mechanisms provides a good opportunity to earn appropriate returns for investors, while delivering essential infrastructure investment for the benefit of consumers and the UK economy.

The Board has seen improved operational performance in the US, as well as the outcome of important rate filings, as Steve describes in his review on page 05. Also in the US, our response to Superstorm Sandy showed we have made improvements in our operational processes and the way we interact with our stakeholders.

Superstorm Sandy was a significant example of the changing weather patterns that we are increasingly seeing in both the UK and US, with 2012 being one of the wettest years on record in the UK. This creates considerable operational challenges for our business and, when severe weather events occur, we need to be able to respond effectively and efficiently.

We announced our new dividend policy in March 2013. This has been a top priority for the Board over the last year and is an important part of the way we create shareholder value. The new policy will aim to grow the ordinary dividend at least in line with the rate of RPI inflation each year for the foreseeable future. It will also support our long-term ambition to target a sustainable dividend in real terms for our shareholders, while helping us maintain the strong balance sheet we need to fund the business. The Board has recommended an increase in the final dividend to 26.36p per ordinary share, ($2.0088 per American Depositary Share), in line with our one year policy of targeting 4% growth in the year 2012/13, bringing the full year dividend to 40.85p per ordinary share.

Being a responsible business

We contribute to our communities directly and indirectly in many ways. We maintain and operate the critical infrastructure needed to keep the lights on and the heating working across the UK and northeastern US, we employ more than 25,000 people and in 2012/13 contributed ¡Ì1.2 billion in taxes in the UK alone. 

Our contribution goes further. For example, we estimate we support around 30,000 jobs in the first tier of our supply chain ? in other words, jobs in companies that are our suppliers across the globe.  

We are proud of our role serving the communities in which we operate. We strive to be a responsible business, seeking to balance the need to build infrastructure efficiently with consideration for the environment.

We are constantly looking for new ways to build and maintain our networks, applying innovative design and being both creative and flexible in our approach to connecting people to the energy
they need. 

The way in which we conduct business with our partners is equally important. Our aim of forging strong relationships built on trust is reflected in our refreshed vision statement. It is also reflected in our line of sight ? the framework that we use to link our objective setting right back to our strategy and vision. In addition to focusing on what we must do to achieve our vision, we are now placing even greater emphasis on how we do it.

I firmly believe that a company needs to act and behave responsibly in seeking to meet the varied needs of its many stakeholders, and our role as an essential utility reinforces that requirement. To this end, we are implementing a comprehensive communications programme in 2013/14 to help remind all employees of the standards that are expected of us collectively and as individuals.

Effective governance

We are implementing the phased transition of the Board¡¯s membership that I set out in last year¡¯s Annual Report and Accounts. The challenges we have over the coming years in the UK and US require a fresh focus, so we have been investing time and effort to develop the Board, refreshing its balance of skills, experience, knowledge and diversity. This brings a broad range of perspectives and challenge, which together with strong teamwork are important factors that I believe contribute to an effective board.

Over the year we have welcomed Nora Mead Brownell, Mark Williamson and, most recently, Jonathan Dawson to our Board as Non-executive Directors. You can read more about the committees they have joined on page 62, as well as the appointment process on page 67.

As a result of the Board¡¯s transition, Stephen Pettit and Linda Adamany stepped down from the Board in 2012 and Ken Harvey and George Rose will step down at this year¡¯s AGM. 

Ken has been the Senior Independent Director since 2004 and chairman of the Remuneration Committee since 2011. Mark Williamson will succeed Ken as Senior Independent Director and Jonathan Dawson will take over from him as chairman of the Remuneration Committee. George has been chairman of the Audit Committee for more than 10 years and Mark Williamson will take over this role when George steps down. Chairmanship of these committees plays an important role in making sure the Board meets its responsibilities to shareholders and stakeholders. 

I would like to thank Ken and George for their commitment to the Board and the very valuable contribution they have made. In January 2013, Helen Mahy left the Company after 11 years. I would like to thank Helen for her valuable contribution and commitment to the Company and the Board. We have appointed Alison Kay as our new Group General Counsel & Company Secretary. See page 182 for her biography. 

Looking ahead

As we enter a new phase for National Grid, I believe we are well positioned for the future. We have a refreshed Board that is operating effectively and will continue to set the tone at the top, helping us to meet the challenges we have on both sides of the Atlantic. 

On many occasions during the year ? in particular during Superstorm Sandy ? our employees¡¯ dedication to customers has been outstanding. I am confident that our people will continue to help make National Grid a company we can all be proud of and I thank all our employees for their hard work and commitment to our success.

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------National Grid 2013-2014

It has been an important and challenging year for National Grid ? and the energy sector in general ? on both sides of the Atlantic.

Although we did not experience any major storm-related outages in our service areas during 2013/14, severe winter weather conditions ? the polar vortex in the US and serious flooding in the UK ? continued to test the resilience of our networks. I am pleased to report these have performed well as a result of prudent investments in past years, as well as the commitment of our people. 

Energy policies in both the UK and US strive to find an acceptable balance between affordability to the ultimate consumers, security of supply and sustainability considerations. Particularly since last September, the focus of UK media and political attention has been moving between each of these three factors, with no enduring consensus of what constitutes the optimum position. 

In the UK, the eight year RIIO settlement we accepted in February 2013 incentivises us to be as efficient as possible while ensuring that savings we achieve can be shared with consumers. Through these incentives we can maximise our efforts to help hard-pressed consumers and deliver good returns to our shareholders.

Transparency

In our continuing efforts to be fair, balanced and understandable in our reporting we are including additional information this year and explaining some technical matters in greater detail, so that we are as transparent as we can be.

In particular, I draw your attention to one aspect of our results. There have always been differences between IFRS reported results and underlying economic performance; however, one of the benefits of the RIIO price control regime is that it provides greater transparency of regulatory adjustments to revenue in our principal UK businesses. The commentary on ¡®timing differences and regulated revenue adjustments¡¯ contained in the Financial review on page 08 aims to help understanding of this matter.

The Board has recommended an increase in the final dividend to 27.54p per ordinary share ($2.3107 per American Depositary Share). If approved, this will bring the full-year dividend to 42.03p per ordinary share ($3.4801 per American Depositary Share), an increase of 2.9% over the 40.85p per ordinary share in respect of the financial year ending 31 March 2013.

Effective governance

We have developed a new remuneration policy to align more closely with RIIO, the continued evolution of our US business and shareholder value creation. The policy will be subject to shareholder approval at the AGM in July ? a requirement of recent legislation. You can read our full Remuneration Report, introduced by Jonathan Dawson, our new Remuneration Committee Chairman, on page 58.

As we describe on page 07, the high level of take-up of the scrip dividend in the last couple of years led to concerns about the potential dilutive effect of this option. This meant that we decided not to offer the scrip element for the 2013/14 interim dividend paid in January this year, as our forecast capital investment programme was already fully funded. I do appreciate, from the letters sent to me, that this caused some dissatisfaction. We have now identified a way of offering the scrip option for both the full-year and interim dividend, which balances shareholders¡¯ appetite for the scrip dividend option with our cash requirements. At the AGM we are seeking approval for the allotment and buy-back authorities we need to do this. The scrip dividend option has been offered for the 2013/14 final dividend subject to shareholder approval of the relevant resolutions at the AGM.

Nick Winser, Executive Director UK, will step down from the Board in July 2014 at the AGM. He will continue with his roles as President of the European Network of Transmission System Operators for Electricity (ENTSO-E) and as Chairman of National Grid Electricity Transmission (NGET) and National Grid Gas (NGG) through to July 2015 before leaving the Company. After July 2015, the role of President of ENTSO-E will no longer be undertaken within the Company, and arrangements for a smooth handover of Nick¡¯s other responsibilities will be announced in due course.

This year we have welcomed Therese Esperdy and John Pettigrew to our Board and we will be saying goodbye to Maria Richter following the AGM. 

During Maria¡¯s 10 years with the Company she has made a significant contribution to the Board and Finance Committee in particular and I would like to thank her for her commitment and wish her all the best in her future endeavours.

Therese, who will be taking over as chairman of the Finance Committee from Maria, brings a wealth of corporate finance and debt market experience to our Board. We have also appointed a new Executive Director, John Pettigrew. John joined National Grid as a graduate entrant in 1991 and has been a member of the Executive Committee for nearly two years.

The appointments of Therese and John have been part of a significant transition of the Board over the last three years through which we have secured a broad range of skills, experience, perspectives and challenge. Together with strong teamwork, I believe these qualities are contributing towards an effective Board, which will continue to set the right tone from the top, helping to meet the challenges ahead.

Being a responsible business

Our vision statement ¡®Connecting you to your energy today, trusted to help you meet your energy needs tomorrow¡¯ emphasises the importance of trust, which we earn not just by meeting our commitments, but by making sure that we do so in the right way. That is why how we work is as important as what we do, and why doing the right thing is at the core of everything we do.

During 2013/14 we spent time reinforcing the standards we expect of our employees in terms of ethical behaviour. As part of this, we have sent our employees a refreshed copy of ¡®Doing the
Right Thing¡¯, which is our guide to ethical business conduct. 

We contribute to the communities in which we operate directly and indirectly in many ways. We maintain and operate the critical infrastructure needed to keep the lights on and the heating working across the UK and northeastern US; we employ more than 23,000 people; and in 2013/14 contributed ¡Ì1.4 billion in taxes in the UK alone. Additionally, we estimate we support more than 28,500 jobs in the first tier of our supply chain ?companies that are our suppliers across the globe.

We aim to develop and operate our business with an inclusive and diverse culture. You can read more about our approach to diversity on page 41, as well as our Board diversity policy on page 56.

Looking ahead

Over the next 12 months the UK and US will see a dynamic political environment. In the UK, the Scottish independence referendum later this year and the general election in 2015 are likely to increase the focus on issues such as the affordability and security of energy supply, as will the proposed review of the energy industry by the Competition and Markets Authority.

In the US, the mid-term US Congressional elections are on the horizon, together with the gubernatorial elections (election of the state governor) in New York, Rhode Island and Massachusetts. We expect debate to continue on essential infrastructure, resilience and sustainability, including our Connect21 dialogue with stakeholders. You can read more about Connect21 on page 35. 

Our people have a crucial role to play in meeting the opportunities ahead. I would like to thank our employees for their hard work and dedication over the past year. Rising to the challenges brought by severe weather and changes within the industry, they have continued to make National Grid a company we can be proud of.
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- RWE 2003

Energy, water and environmental services make up RWE¡¯s core business. These utilities have become  much more important for the quality
of our living standards and our environment. Whereas supply security and prices for electrici- ty, water and environmental services used to
be the point of focus, the sustainability of prof- itable activity is now becoming ever more sig- nificant. For us, RWE¡¯s contribution to climate protection plays a key role in this context. This gives rise to the question of how we should handle  resources  and take responsibility for future generations.

Not once have we tried to avoid this debate. In fact, we have helped  it flourish. RWE¡¯s declared  mission is to contribute to establishing a global trend  that  economizes resources, guarantees secure, high-quality supplies,  and creates  wealth.  This is the very philosophy  that  determines RWE¡¯s strategy for sustainability. It is being implemented throughout the Group and applies  to approximately 127,000 employees worldwide.

Therefore,  the logical conclusion was to refine the substance of our environmental report  and adapt it to the state of the debate on sustain- able thinking and action.  We want to answer the questions you may have regarding ¡°Our Respon- sibility¡± in this report.  We will stay this course in the coming years?with your support and con- structive comments.

Our customers expect this level of commitment
?and rightly so. Since we are an international multi-utility group,  our more than 90 million- strong  world customer  base expects  high-quality products and services from a single source.
They equally expect us to treat  the environment in which we all live with respect, setting an example for others.

Sustainability-oriented investors  and analysts  confirmed our environmental performance. RWE significantly improved its ranking in the 2004
Dow Jones World Sustainability Index,  winding up fourth in the energy sector.

This rating honors the transparency and open- ness we have accorded to our code of conduct? a fundamental principle that  we intend  to reflect in this report.

Climate protection is one of the major chal- lenges  facing us. To address this, we carry out comprehensive modernization projects  for our portfolio of power plants,  which allows us to lower climate gas emissions  profitably and to impressive orders of magnitude. Our latest-gen- eration, lignite-fired power station sets global standards. We are convinced  that  this technolo- gy paves the way for coal-based  electricity as a viable option  for the future,  also under sustain- ability considerations. In addition, we dedicate
a lot of time to exploring ways to use renewable energy profitably.  In this light, we expanded
our renewable energy capacity considerably in recent  years.

We supply 70 million customers with fresh drinking water and sanitation around  the world. This is a responsibility that  one cannot  do jus- tice to without  a high degree of sustainable activity. Less industrialized nations reach their limits of economic  performance when it comes to investing  in secure clean water supplies.  This is why RWE participates in public private part- nership  models,  which make use of and inte- grate  local know-how.

Given our Group¡¯s wide international reach, it is paramount for us to learn from one another, safeguard cultural diversity, appreciate different  social requirements, and develop  a healthy understanding of each other.  These are impor- tant  ingredients of sustainable governance.

These fundamental concepts are expressed in this report,  substantial portions  of which were audited by external  examiners  for the first time. We hope this makes for an exciting read, and we invite you to participate in our dialogue, via e-mail at info-responsibility@rwe.com. What are your thoughts on RWE¡¯s commitment? What does ¡°sustainability¡± mean to you?

Harry Roels
President  and CEO

Dr. Gert Maichel
Executive Vice President  and Environmental
Coordinator

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- RWE 2004
Chief Executive Officer¡¯s Statement

The report describes our performance in achieving the targets we set ourselves last year and our continued efforts to integrate the concept of corporate responsibility (CR) into all aspects
of our business. It is also an opportunity to set out the improvements which we will be pursuing over the course of the next year and to invite discussion with all those who influence or are affected by our activities. We believe that our adoption this year of the Global Reporting Initiative¡¯s indicators, as far as practicable,
will assist all our stakeholders to assess our performance against globally applicable reporting guidelines. As in previous years, the data contained in this report have been verified by an independent organisation, Enviros Consulting Ltd.

Our key highlights in 2004 include:
?  An improvement in our ranking in the Business in the Community¡¯s (BitC) Corporate Responsibility Index to 14th, compared to
36th last year. For the second year running
we were also awarded the BitC¡¯s PerCent Club standard in recognition of the fact that we donated more than 1% of pre-tax profits to the community
? We have made  significant improvements to the overall standards of service we offer our customers although we recognise that we have more to do to deliver the first?class service that our customers expect
?  Extending our range of programmes offering assistance to disadvantaged customers and providing an additional ?1.5 million to support our Health Through Warmth initiative, which aims to help those living in cold, damp homes
?  Actively raising awareness of CR issues amongst our suppliers and our employees
?  Development of a statement of business principles and ¡®speak up¡¯ policy
?  Implementing monitoring and reporting schemes at each of our power stations to meet the requirements of the EU Greenhouse  Gas Emissions Trading Scheme
?  Extending our environmental management system (EMS) to cover all our office buildings
?  Increasing the number of employees volunteering to take part in community-based projects and increasing the number of school pupils involved in our education programmes.

Our objectives for 2005 are set out in full on pages 46?48 of this report. We will pursue these within the overall framework set by our corporate responsibility principles:
?  To continue to participate in activities that have a social or environmental benefit
?  To formalise the assessment of social and environmental issues when making business decisions
?  To work with our stakeholders so that they are aware of our responsibilities and provide opportunities to discuss and shape our strategy
?  To focus our community strategy explicitly on the themes of health, education and environment
?  To work with local communities around our operational sites and offices to develop effective partnerships
?  To continuously review and improve the management of our social and environmental impacts.

I would welcome your feedback on the contents of the report. Please take the time to contact us at csr.feedback@rwenpower.com or to write to us at the address which appears on the back cover.

Andrew Duff
Chief Executive Officer

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- RWE 2005

Dear Readers,

It was good  to see that  our 2005 Sustainability Report generated such a high level of interest. The purpose of the report is to document our responsi- bility to our employees and shareholders, as well as to society and the environment.

Sustainability  means the planned development of our corporate business strategy. Sustainability  is the key to the economic,  ecological and social future of the corporation. We as a company are essentially  committed to economic success and to achieve this we need  to survive in a competitive environment. We rely on having as many customers as possible  who prefer to buy our products and services on the market. And what is the market? It is the sum total of individual purchasing decisions  that  are based on a whole range of different  criteria.

In the past,  price and quality were the primary fac- tors. While this is essentially  still true, we are now seeing  a number of new items being added to the ¡°quality¡± shopping list. We are no longer measured just by classical values such as security of supply and the competitiveness of our prices. In a much more general  sense  our entrepreneurial conduct  is now also assessed on the basis of social, ecological and ? in some cases ? ethical considerations. It is therefore no surprise that  the decisions  made by investors  and customers are being based  increas- ingly on the concept of sustainability. A clear sign indeed  of the direction  in which we are moving.

Of course there  is nothing remarkable  in stating that  every company and every business is part of society. What is new is that  our position  in society is now branded by a series of hitherto unfamiliar expectations and demands. In short: the public have become  more critical, more observant and more sensitive  ? and this is perhaps a good  thing.

Energy is a valuable and finite resource  and all who use it must adopt a responsible approach. We there- fore welcome the objective  dialogue now underway with a discriminating and perceptive public. We in turn have to adjust  to this by aligning our corporate strategy accordingly and by becoming far more responsive towards  our social environment. We
have to be inspired by social and political develop- ments,  expectations and aspirations, but without  sacrificing our identity. We should learn to observe  how we see ourselves  and others  and how we our- selves are seen.  This is the key to mutual trust and understanding. And society¡¯s trust is essential for our long-term success.

We know about  our special environmental responsi- bilities. This is why we aim to commission  the first industrial-scale CO2-free coal-fired power plant by the year 2014.  This project  will enable  us to investi- gate  on a commercial scale the feasibility of coal- fired power generation with downstream CO2 seques- tration  and storage and will help pave the way for an eco-friendly coal-based power generation sys- tem for the future.  The significant  advantages that  coal has to offer, namely security of supply and cost effectiveness, can therefore be exploited in the long term as part of a balanced fuel mix.

We also have responsibilities to our workforce. This primarily means personnel management and development, employee motivation and interaction between management levels. We need  more than  just a skilled workforce ? we need to adopt a mode of behaviour  in our social dealings  with one anoth- er that  is based  on trust and respect. We need a working environment in which new and innovative  ideas can flourish. An atmosphere that  is conducive  to incorporating and capitalising on economic,  social, technical  and ecological developments.

Last year, following a Group-wide opinion  poll of the company¡¯s employees, we carried out an initial corporate appraisal  which in turn launched a broad  discussion  process.  The value criteria used in this exercise were also put into effect last year and now serve as a basic guideline  for our in-house and external  relations. The introduction of a code of conduct  has also provided  us with a set of concrete rules that  reflect ? regardless of any judicial ruling ? generally accepted ideas for correct behaviour.

The social expectations and demands being made of our company extend  far beyond  the personal  lev- el and now include our contribution to climate pro- tection  and the environment. At the same time we are being asked to provide safe, reliable and low- cost energy. There are also local and employment issues to be considered, notably with regard to the provision of training places. And in addition to all this there  is the matter  of the company¡¯s social and cultural obligations. This all adds up to a set of wide- ranging  demands. It is our responsibility to take these  issues into account  in an appropriate manner  and to weld them all into an economically,  ecologi- cally and socially balanced whole. While there  is certainly still much scope for improvement, we are convinced  that  we are on the right path  and that  this approach is already having a positive impact.

Sustainability  is a far-sighted strategy serving both  as a key to the long-term future of our company and as a commitment to our common responsibili- ty. You can be certain that  every member of the RWE AG Executive Board is fully and individually committed to the policy of sustainable corporate development.

Of course you will want to judge for yourselves just how much progress  we have made on the issue of sustainability. The information you need  is all there  in the current Sustainability  Report. Whether your conclusions  are positive or otherwise we welcome any feedback  as part of our ongoing commitment to an in-house dialogue (info-responsibility@rwe.com).


Harry Roels
Chief Executive Officer

Alwin Fitting
Member of the Executive Board
and in charge  of Corporate  Responsibility

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- RWE 2006

Dear Readers,

At the RWE AG Annual General Meeting on April 18,
2006 we presented our second  comprehensive Corpo- rate Responsibility Report. For the first time we are supplementing it with an ¡°intermediate¡± status  report  relating  to the past business year, which refers to the past financial year. The next full report will be pub- lished on the occasion  of the Annual General Meeting in April 2008.

When we speak in terms of corporate responsibility (CR) we mean the contribution that  we as a corporation can make towards  sustainable development. In our opinion  this involves picking up on and responding to social needs  and integrating them in our decisions.  Climate protection represents the greatest challenge to RWE.

The conversion  of lignite and coal to electricity makes us Europe¡¯s largest  emitter  of CO2, yet at the same time it is the cornerstone of a reliable and affordable energy supply. In the face of rising climate protection requirements and increasingly tight production capaci- ties, we are planning  an investment offensive to mod- ernise and extend  our European power plant portfolio with highly efficient installations. At the same time we wish to contribute towards  an economic  approach to handling  energy by giving our customers intensive  sup- port in using energy efficiently.

Consequently, climate protection and energy efficiency remain central fields of action and our activities will continue to focus on them.  By contrast, in other fields of action,  which we had defined  in the context  of our CR strategy, developed for the first time in 2003,  the emphases have shifted  significantly.  Therefore,  last year we began revising the fields of action for the sake of sustained development at RWE. In association with this we engaged in an intensive  dialogue with our stakeholders. We wish to continue the open and constructive exchange of ideas with representatives of major stakeholder groups  that  characterised the RWE dialogue forum in November 2006,  also in 2007. Fur- thermore, we are aware of the urgent  tasks involved in improving occupational safety and health  protection and overcoming  the problems  of demographic change.

Two important forms of appraisal  show that  our contri- bution  to a sustainable development is recognized:

In September 2006 RWE received distinction as ¡°Best in Class¡± for the transparency of its climate protection strategy and was included  in the ¡°Climate Leadership  Index¡±  of the Carbon Disclosure Project. Also in September 2006 RWE was again able to gain a place in the Dow Jones Sustainability  Index  (World and STOXX) as a Sustainability  Leader and is there- fore one of the few German companies that  has been  listed since 1999.

The present status report is at the same time our progress  report for the United Nations Global Com- pact, which we joined in 2003.  By doing so we have undertaken the obligation to actively support ten prin- ciples of sustained action. Last year we were able to comply with this in particular by drafting  and imple- menting  our climate protection strategy (principle 7), by deciding  to invest in the development of a virtually CO2-free power plant (principle 9) and by implement- ing our Code of Conduct (principle 10).

Alwin Fitting
Member of the Executive Board of RWE AG
and in charge  of Corporate  Responsibility

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- RWE 2007

Dear Readers,
¡°Sustainability for us is far more than just a precondi- tion for our own long-term success.  As a Group with a long tradition and a major employer,  we feel respon- sible for our environment as well¡±. This is how we worded our commitment to sustainability in the first RWE Environment Report 1998.  Now, ten years on, a lot of things  are already a matter  of course at RWE, as exemplified  by everyone  in the Group.
We provide young people  with traineeships far in excess of our own requirements. We protect the envi- ronment in areas of lignite mining, recultivate  the landscape along our power grids, and have established an ambitious Group-wide environmental management system.
Today, however, we are obliged  to admit that  our efforts are not always noticed  and are barely keeping  pace with the growing demands made of us by society. Politicians¡¯ and people¡¯s  confidence in large, seemingly  anonymous corporations has declined  ? in Europe as a whole, and in Germany in particular.  This loss of confi- dence  has hit energy suppliers  especially hard.
So what can we do, what must we do, to win greater acceptance for our business model? This is a question we have been  pondering intensively,  and our sixth sustainability report is part of our effort to find an answer to it. We are committed to open and trans- parent  reporting, especially in areas in which RWE has been  a target of criticism. Indeed, we cannot  afford
to do without  it, as it is a precondition for both  self- improvement and more focused  action.

It is especially important to harmonise the principles of private enterprise with society¡¯s expectations of us. What does this mean in practice?
1. Society expects  us, as Europe¡¯s largest  single indus- trial emitter  of carbon dioxide (CO2), to make a major contribution to meeting the climate-protec- tion targets that  have been  agreed at the political level.
2. Our customers expect us to provide a secure supply of electricity and gas at fair and transparent prices.

Our business is geared to long-term returns  and there- fore calls for the careful assessment of political and social developments. This pertains to opportunities as well as risks. If, in the long run, RWE is unable  to strike a balance between these  diverse interests, then  we
will ultimately  be putting at risk the basis for sustain- able economic  success.
In the course of the past two years, therefore, we have reviewed the areas for action that  we regard as especially important for responsible corporate policies. Protection  of the environment is now our top priority. Our continued use of lignite and hard coal to generate power makes us especially vulnerable  to criticism here.  Coal, however, contributes greatly to providing a secure energy supply both  for Europe as a whole and for Germany in particular; besides, the most recent,  state-of-the-art plants already have a much lower CO2 output than do older units.
Yet our substantial investments in pursuit of the agreed climate protection targets go beyond  coal. Among them is the large-scale expansion of renewable  energy sources.  We intend  our investments in this area between now and 2012 to average  at least ¢æ 1 billion a year. This is an ambitious target, but one that  our RWE is confident of achieving.
What is all too often  overlooked  is that  energy effi- ciency is also an important part of climate protection. RWE has launched an innovative  programme that  starting this summer will equip some 100,000 house- holds in M?hlheim with smart meters.  This new gener- ation of meters  provides information about  domestic  electricity consumption day and night,  thus helping  our customers to save electricity.
We also act responsibly  towards  our employees and the people  living in all the regions  in which we operate. True to the slogan ¡°People make it possible¡±, RWE promotes voluntary community involvement  on the part of its employees, who after all are ¡±our RWE¡¯s best ambassadors¡±. This report explains the progress  we have made in this area, too.
Our commitment to transparency also includes the intensive  dialogue we are engaged in with our stake- holders. Our online publication of power generation data  and detailed information on the breakdown  of our domestic  and commercial customers¡¯  electricity and fuel bills are part of our drive to promote trans- parency in the marketplace.
Thanks to these  initiatives,  we are now on the right track, as is evident  from the success of our 2005 report, which took second  place in a ranking of sustain- ability reports  of Germany¡¯s 150 largest  corporations. The year 2007 saw us once again included  in the Dow Jones Sustainability  Index.  RWE has been  included  in this sustainability index ? the world¡¯s most important ? ever since its inception. Such a positive response to our efforts is an incentive  to do even better.
By 2015 at the very latest, RWE will rank among  the drivers of sustainable development in all of its European core markets.  We can count on the proven dedication of our employees to achieve this.

Questions and comments both  on this report and on our strategy are always welcome, even those  ? or rather especially those  ? that  are of a critical nature.

Essen, March 2008
Dr J?rgen  Gro©¬mann

President  and CEO
Alwin Fitting
Labour Director and Board member responsible for CR

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- RWE 2008

Dear Readers,

Trust and responsibility are two sides of the same coin. Whether our customers, employees and society at large trust us and accept  what we do depends on how seriously we take our corporate responsibility (CR). At the same time, CR helps us to tackle the complex challenges facing us and to make our busi- ness fit for the future.  We have long regarded CR as a positive factor and have therefore worked steadily to make it an integral  part of all our business processes. Our CR strategy defines  ten areas for action which far from being independent of each other are in fact closely interrelated ? climate protection, energy effi- ciency and security of supply, for example.  And it is here ? rather than in risk or reputational management ? that  the constructive and forward-thinking  potential of CR has most purchase. We develop  Group-wide objectives and targets which are then  integrated in our business operations.
The objectives for 2008 defined  in our last report,  ¡°Our Responsibility. Report 2007¡±,  have since been  put into practice as described in what follows. This report also constitutes a Communication on Progress for the purposes of the UN Global Compact,  which we signed  up to in 2003.
So what have we achieved  this past year? The found- ing of RWE Innogy  GmbH has enabled us to forge ahead with numerous projects  and to greatly broaden the scope of our commitment to renewable energy sources.  Another key milestone in our climate protec- tion strategy was the selection of a site for the world¡¯s first industrial-scale power plant with CO2 capture and storage (CCS). Meanwhile, participation in RWE Companius,  a now Group-wide initiative of the sales regions which supports employees who do voluntary work in their spare time has been  gratifyingly high. So where do we go from here? RWE is undergoing a radical transformation which will take time to accom- plish. After all, the new technologies we need  cannot  be pulled out of a hat, but require years of develop- ment work. We are doing everything  we can to speed up this process,  but are still dependent on our stake- holders¡¯ confidence and feedback. We therefore look forward to receiving your comments and suggestions as well as any constructive criticism you may have (responsibility@rwe.com). Knowing that  RWE can develop  only hand in hand with the society in which it operates, we are determined to be a solid and trustworthy partner.

Alwin Fitting
Labour Director and Board member  responsible for Corporate  Responsibility

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- RWE 2009

Dear Readers,

We know it from our own experience: the world is changing ? perhaps as never before.  Parts of the economy are ailing and looking for ways out of the crisis. Industry, meanwhile,  is facing challenges of global magnitude such as climate change  and scarcity of resources. We are responding to these  challenges ? with more innovation and more investment in climate- friendly technologies.

February 2008 saw us launching  RWE Innogy  respon- sible within the RWE Group for expanding renewables. Between the end of 2007 and the end of 2009 we increased our generation capacity from wind, water and biomass from 1,300 to 2,500 MW. Our acquisition of the Dutch utility Essent made important contribu- tions. And this is only the beginning: RWE is becom- ing greener, more robust  and more international.
We spend  more than one billion euros every year on pushing  renewables, and already have an additional 400 MW of generation capacity under construction.

Our focus here is on offshore  wind farms. RWE is also supporting new technologies such as micro wind tur- bines and tidal power, which may not be commercially viable as yet, but look very promising. And our ambi- tions reach higher still: by supporting the Desertec  Project, we are promoting the large-scale generation of solar-thermal electricity in the Sahara ? even if it will be years before  this dream becomes a reality.

The shift to renewable energy sources is bound  to take time, if security of supply is to be maintained and electricity prices are to remain competitive. Climate change, however, brooks no delay. RWE is therefore investing  in climate-friendly technologies for conventional power stations as well, including CO2 flue-gas scrubbing and binding  CO2 by micro- algae.  The founding of RWE Effizienz GmbH has helped  to expedite climate protection on the con- sumer side as well. Both smart metering and smart home, a special computer system for controlling domestic  energy consumption, will help consumers  save energy, while at the same time enhancing domestic comfort. We are also committed to revolu- tionising  road traffic by promoting electro-mobility, which naturally will include fully functional  and affordable electric cars.

In other  areas, however, valuable time is being lost. This is especially true of developing carbon capture  and storage (CCS), which is a technology we cannot  afford to do without, if climate protection is to be taken seriously. Unfortunately, our first exploration projects  in regions with potential sequestration sites have met with fierce resistance from local residents. And scepticism  is widespread among  policymakers,  too. We therefore hope to see a fair CCS law passed this year, as only then  will we have the legal safe- guards  we need  to plan ahead.

Climate protection is not the only matter  of concern to society. Other environmental issues require our attention, too. The recultivation of opencast mines remains an important task, as does the preservation and promotion of biodiversity  in the surroundings of our power stations and along our power lines.

We endeavour to be a force for good  in other  areas as well, such as the crucial sphere  of research  and education. We have therefore expanded our professo- rial endowments and RWE Stiftung got down to work in early 2009 with education among  its top funding  priorities.  Education is taken very seriously within the Group as well. The RWE Development Centre, for example,  was founded to anchor the idea of life-long learning not just in the company itself, but in the minds of those  who work here.

RWE is moving with the times. With expertise, and with experience in working for the common good.  Last year, 4,500  RWE employees volunteered to spend  some of their spare time working on some 2,300  community projects  supported by the RWE Companius initiative.

Instead of waiting for it to happen, RWE is actively shaping the future.  In 2007, we defined  ten specific areas for action and for each of these  set ourselves  quantifiable targets for more sustainability in line with the principles of the UN Global Compact.  In 2009,  we went a step further by developing key performance indicators  with which to ascertain  and document our progress  or setbacks  in each area for action.  The next step will be the definition of clear targets. Which is why performance in sustainability will henceforth be considered in executive  board  compensation as well. Corporate  responsibility is therefore being anchored in our core processes.

We are also promoting transparency and accountabil-  ity, which after all are essential to constructive dia- logue with society. We regard frank exchanges of views with our stakeholders as a valuable compass  for our actions.  We want to know what you think as well. So please get in touch with us (responsibility@rwe.com).

Essen, March 2010

Alwin Fitting
HR Director and Board member responsible for CR

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- RWE 2010


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- RWE 2011

Dear Readers,

The energy transition is a big challenge for us all. RWE is playing a role in structuring the future of energy supply. And that did not begin only a year ago. Our company has already been doing a great deal of work on this issue for some years now. We have been reducing CO2 emissions from our power plants, expanding renewables and enhancing energy efficiency. Less CO2, secure supply and afford- able prices  ? these  are our objectives. In Germany and in Europe.

We have a great deal of work before us if we are to achieve these goals. We will continue to expand renewable energies over the coming years. Step by step. Our installation ships for constructing off- shore wind farms are almost ready to start working. We will use them to set up wind turbines off the German and Welsh coasts. The new wood-pellet factory in Georgia (USA) is already producing bio- mass for our power plants. And the Andersol thermal power plant in Spain, in which we have a stake, will soon come on stream and start commercial operations. At the same time, we are modernising our conventional power stations with the aim of supplying energy more flexibly and efficiently to the grid. They will remain an important foundation for the energy system ? particularly in view of the accelerated exit from nuclear energy in Germany.

We are modernising the electricity grids at the same time so that the switch in the electricity supply operates smoothly over the long term. The grid will get smarter as a result of our efforts. The grids of the future will no longer simply be transmission routes, they will also form the neural networks of our energy systems. We will use them to control the supply and demand of electricity. This is a function that is becoming increasingly complex as a result of a large number of local plants and the impact of the weather on renewable energies. Model projects like Smart Country in the region of the Eifel hills or E-Dema in M?lheim/Ruhr are test beds where we have joined forces with partners from business and the local authorities to put them through their paces.

The third important mainstay is efficient use of energy by consumers. We are also offering solutions at this point. For example Smart Meters and Smart Homes are products that give your household net- work connectivity ? products that take the energy revolution into the homes of our customers.

One thing is certain. This radical change will only be successful if everyone works together ? people in the community, politicians and companies. Individual companies cannot afford to simply deliver fair prices, a secure supply and climate protection. They also need to engage with traditional environ- mental protection, innovations, compliance with sustainability criteria in the supply chain, a high lev- el of occupational health and safety for our employees and suppliers, a visionary approach to the demographic change, and social engagement in the regions.

We have bundled these challenges in ten areas for action. Quantifiable indicators mean they can be measured and coordinated. And we have defined concrete targets that we intend to achieve in these fields. These targets are supported by international standards and principles, such as the UN Global Compact.

Are our objectives the right ones? And are they ambitious enough to make the radical change sus- tainable over the long term? We want to engage in a dialogue about these issues with the communi- ty and with individuals like you. Send us your thoughts and ideas to responsibility@rwe.com.

Essen, 28 March 2012

Peter Terium
Deputy Chairman

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- RWE AG 2012

Dear Readers,

Our energy system is currently experiencing far-reaching upheaval. This entails that many areas are currently being reviewed at RWE. However, we are keeping to one strategic target: Our business must become more sustainable. We are currently talking to our stakeholders to establish precisely what this means for us in concrete terms. We are addressing your expectations and taking account of them in our actions. 

Establishing more climate-friendly electricity generation continues to be the biggest challenge. The exit from nuclear energy in Germany will shift the timing of our mitigation path for reducing CO2 but even under these difficult conditions we are keeping to our established target. By 2020 we want to reduce CO2 emissions for each megawatt hour of electricity generated at RWE power stations by 20 %. We are renewing our conventional power station portfolio in order to achieve this. In 2012, we brought on stream new gas-fired power stations with almost 5,000 MW. At the same time, we are continuing to expand renewable energies. 400 MW of capacity have been added during the year under review. 

Energy efficiency is the second important lever for enhanced energy efficiency. Saving energy protects the environment and reduces costs over the long term. This is also an issue where our customers expect responses from us ? particularly at this time when electricity prices are continuing to increase as a result of expenses incurred for the expansion of renewable energies.

We are adapting our business model in order to fulfil this transition from being a conventional supplier to becoming a partner for our customers. Together with you, RWE wants to develop appropriate and affordable solutions to meet your energy requirement. We advise customers on energy savings and support them with services and products for energy management. At the same time, we are offering our customers the option of establishing stability by offering long-term tariffs with fixed prices as a hedge against changes in price. We are also partners for local authorities and municipal utility companies. We are joining forces to make the distribution grids fit for the energy transition and to ensure security of supply. RWE remains a company with strong regional roots in its European core markets. This is where we want to restructure our business and make use of the opportunities offered by the energy transition. Our overall customer numbers have remained virtually stable and this demonstrates that our customers trust us ? even in a market environment where a lot of new providers are entering the market and competition is becoming more intense. 

This confidence provides motivation while at the same time strengthening commitment ? this is because our stakeholders also assess the quality of our products by the degree of responsibility we apply when we procure the raw materials. In a globalised economy, procuring fuels is not just confined to the borders of the EU. We source significant amounts of hard coal and biomass from regions where environmental protection and labour rights are not given the same status as here. We are therefore developing our own approaches that will enable us only to work together with responsible business partners. The sector¡¯s ¡°Bettercoal¡± initiative helps us to enhance transparency in the mining conditions for hard coal. The Group¡¯s own Biomass Policy commits us to sourcing fuels only from sustainable sources for use in generating electricity and heat. This commitment also represents a manifestation of the UN Global Compact which we already committed to in 2004. 

We also foster communication in an atmosphere of trust with our internal stakeholders ? our team of employees. Their work enhances the sustainable success of our company. Although we are having to contend with difficult economic framework conditions, we are extending the protection of jobs against redundancy until the end of 2014. We want to remain in dialogue with the community on issues like the environment, the marketplace and employees. We also want to talk to you.

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- RWE AG 2013

CEO Interview instead of CEO Message

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- RWE AG 2014

CEO Interview instead of CEO Message
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Centrica 2004 
Chief executive¡¯s statement

Welcome to Centrica¡¯s second corporate responsibility report, covering the year to 31 December 2004.

I believe we have made good progress in understanding and managing our key corporate responsibility impacts during the past 12 months.
Our corporate responsibility strategy enables us to address the challenges of sustainable development and we continue to engage with our stakeholders, working in partnership to respond to their views and concerns.
At Centrica, corporate responsibility means:
? providing our customers with a compelling experience;
? ensuring that our employees have the chance to maximise their contribution and are recognised and rewarded for doing so;
? not just minimising any negative impact our operations might have on the environment, but making a positive contribution to future sustainability; and

? ?nding innovative ways to contribute to the communities of which we are proud to be a part.
In a ?ercely competitive marketplace, we have to take tough decisions in the interests of customers and shareholders. In 2004 for example, rising wholesale energy prices inevitably led to rises in the retail prices we charge our customers, while signi?cant group restructuring resulted in a number of redundancies.

It is precisely at such times that a commitment to corporate responsibility is vital. These decisions were made in an open and transparent manner and with an absolute determination that our more vulnerable customers should not suffer unnecessary hardship and that employees affected by the restructuring should be fully supported.
The creation, for example, of the British Gas Energy Trust Fund is just one way in which we aim to help customers who struggle to pay their bills (page 9).
And the change management process that we put in place to support necessary organisational changes was characterised throughout by employee involvement and consultation, working closely with trade unions, and by the use of services such as career counselling and outplacement support.
I believe it is through such activities that corporate responsibility is becoming increasingly embedded in our decision making, enabling us to manage the direct impact of our operations on all our stakeholders.
The business climate in which we are operating is changing and Centrica is changing with it. The decision, for example, to sell the AA along with our acquisition of new upstream assets and investment in renewable energy generation, supports our strategic imperative of creating an international, integrated energy company.
Increasingly, our determination to secure future energy supplies for our customers, will require signi?cant changes to the way we do things. We will, for example, procure more gas supplies from international markets, while our upstream investments in conventional modes of generation signi?cantly increase our carbon emissions.
The changes necessary for business growth will certainly pose a number of new challenges. But I am con?dent that our core values and principles will help us to thrive on those challenges and ful?l the expectations of our stakeholders.
As we continue to grow our business in 2005 and beyond ? both in Britain and internationally ? we will strive to ensure that corporate responsibility underpins all new activities and we will extend the coverage of our reporting to new business areas.
I hope you ?nd this summary interesting and I would encourage you to visit our more detailed online report at www.centrica.com/ responsibility

Your feedback will help us to continue developing and improving our approach and I would welcome your views on any aspect of the report. Contact details are provided throughout.
Centrica¡¯s approach to corporate responsibility has come a long way in a relatively short time, and I¡¯m very proud of the distance we have travelled. I am also conscious that there is still a long way to go.

Sir Roy Gardner
Chief Executive

----------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Supplementary Information 

To meet our goals and deliver the returns that our shareholders expect, a responsible approach must underpin our strategy and run through everything we do.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Centrica 2005

Chief Executive¡¯s statement

Welcome to Centrica¡¯s
Corporate Responsibility Summary Report 2005, which highlights our performance in areas where our activities had the most significant impact. You can read our full report at www.centrica.com/responsibility.
During the year we structured  our approach to focus on tackling climate change and environmental impact, supporting vulnerable customers and ensuring robust health and safety standards. Our record in 2005 demonstrates  good progress. Whatever happens in the energy market in 2006, Centrica will not be distracted  from our goal of delivering a world-class performance in this field, as in every other.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Centrica 2006 

Introduction from Sam Laidlaw

Welcome to Centrica¡¯s Corporate Responsibility Report for 2006. It describes our approach to managing the social, ethical and environmental impact of our business activities, highlights our performance this year and outlines our future plans.

The impact of our operations is wide ranging and our engagement with stakeholders continues to be fundamentally important to our success.

Since I joined the company in July 2006, I have been impressed by the level of commitment and creativity we apply to both the challenges and the opportunities created by corporate responsibility (CR).

I am encouraged by the progress we made in 2006 under the direction of Mary Francis CBE, chair of our Corporate Responsibility Committee. But I believe there is more we can do.

Rather than outline my detailed thoughts in this statement I have given an interview, in which I describe why I believe CR is critical to Centrica, comment on our performance last year and outline what we need to do in the future.

I would encourage you to access the video, read our report and provide feedback on how you think we¡¯re doing. Your comments ? positive and negative ? are valuable to us and will help us to develop and shape our future approach.

Sam Laidlaw
Chief Executive
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Centrica 2007 


Chief Executive¡¯s introduction

Introduction from Sam Laidlaw

Welcome to Centrica¡¯s Corporate Responsibility Report for 2007.

It describes how we are responding to key social and environmental challenges; taking advantage of opportunities to deliver sustainable commercial solutions; and highlights our current performance and future plans.

As a leading integrated energy company Centrica has an important role to play in driving the move towards the low-carbon economy, tackling fuel poverty and, ultimately, securing energy supplies for our millions of customers.

These complex and interconnected issues are central both to sustainable development and to the sustainability of our business. The alignment of financial and non-financial goals is an essential feature of our strategy.

To reflect this, in late 2007, I became a member of our Corporate Responsibility Committee. With strong leadership from the Committee, I believe we made significant progress on the key corporate responsibility issues affecting our business.

Rather than write a long introduction I caught up with Mary Francis, Senior Independent Director and Chairman of our Corporate Responsibility Committee, to discuss the year and review our progress.

Sam Laidlaw
Chief Executive

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Centrica 2008 

Chief Executive¡¯s introduction

Introduction from Sam Laidlaw

Welcome to Centrica¡¯s corporate responsibility report for 2008.

It has been a very challenging year with changing economic circumstances and extraordinary turbulence in the commodity markets. As a result there has been an increased focus on many corporate responsibility (CR) issues and, in particular, how companies continue to manage these issues in and embed them into everyday business performance during times of recession where cost efficiencies are very much a global priority.  In a year of sharply rising fuel prices the areas of highest impact for Centrica were our support programmes for our most vulnerable customers and our long term efforts to ensure security of energy supply.  We also continued to take a lead role in our generating power through low emission technologies, minimising climate change as we move towards a low-carbon future.

2008 was my first full year as a member of the Corporate Responsibility Committee. Throughout the year, the Committee challenged our current performance and debated areas of future activity across a range of critical business issues. Through this continual process of improvement, I have confidence that we are making good progress in developing the necessary structures and processes, allied to a management commitment that will build a sustainable and environmentally aware business for the future. In this report, you can read about our initiatives and performance over the year, as well as our forward- looking plans for 2009 and beyond.

As our CR programmes mature, there is an increasing amount of available information to present to our internal and external audiences. As in previous years, we have chosen to use the online environment to report. Through our website we believe we can disclose the most information in the easiest to use format, leaving users to choose the level of detail appropriate to their interests.

I hope you find the report useful and encourage you to provide any feedback that you may have so that we can continue to improve both our performance and how we communicate it.

Sam Laidlaw
Chief Executive

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Centrica 2009 

Chief Executive¡¯s introduction

We made transformational changes to the business in 2009, taking  important  steps  towards  our  vision  of  becoming  the leading integrated energy company. The acquisition of Venture Production and a 20% stake in British Energy means we have a more  robust  business  model,  capable  of  meeting  a  greater proportion  of  our  customer¡¯s  energy  needs  from  our  own sources.  And  the  restructuring  of  British  Gas  into  a  single business will enable us to meet the future energy and energy services requirements of our customers.

However, we are conscious that we must continue to transform the business to meet the needs of a low carbon future. Society as a whole must adjust to reduce its impact on the environment and to both mitigate and adapt to climate change. In the UK, environmental initiatives are already leading to reductions in energy consumption.

We aim to lead this transition by providing energy for a low carbon future. We¡¯re already making strong inroads with our off take  of  low carbon nuclear energy and will continue to be a leader in offshore wind generation. But to prosper fully in a low carbon  world we need to transform Centrica from an energy supplier to an energy and energy services provider. That is why we have restructured British Gas and are now building our skills and  capabilities  in  energy  efficiency,  smart  metering  and microgeneration.

Becoming a low carbon services provider offers opportunities but also new risks, such as whether increased energy services will offset lower energy consumption. To address these issues, we reviewed our CR strategy in 2009, aiming to coordinate our activities across the company to deliver on our goal of energy for a low carbon future.

The actions described in this report set us on the right path. Through  smart  metering,  microgeneration  and  our  new insulation business we will be leading the transition in Britain towards  low  carbon  and  low  energy  housing  ?  improving people¡¯s homes and helping to reduce their energy bills in the process.  Investment  in  the  Lincs  wind  farm  will  expand Centrica¡¯s existing offshore wind capacity. We also achieved an industry first in refinancing the Lynn, Inner Dowsing and Glens  of Foudland wind farms, unlocking capital which can now fund new projects.

We made good progress in other areas such as health and safety, where we are reporting a significant reduction in injuries, and  in building trust with customers as reflected in improved customer satisfaction scores. We have also integrated health, safety   and  environment  metrics  into  annual  performance reviews which are linked to our employee bonus scheme.

These are important changes within the business but more is needed and we are seeking to strengthen the foundations of sustainable business practice across the company. For instance, the majority of activity in this report is from the UK and we need to   achieve similar progress in  North  America.  The new management team at Direct Energy is seeking to create an integrated energy model in North America, but we must take into account the fact that market conditions present different sustainability challenges.

But we cannot follow our agenda without also continuing to build trust among all our stakeholders as this will empower us to drive change and lead on debates around the future of energy. We earn trust by treating people fairly, being open and transparent and demonstrating commitment to the highest ethical standards. Over the next few months we will be seeking feedback and engaging  with  stakeholders  to  define  the  steps  needed  to achieve a low carbon future. You can follow our progress on our website at www.centrica.com/views, where you can share your views on our performance and plans.

I  do  not  underestimate  the  scale  of  the  challenge  ?  for companies  like  Centrica  and  for  society  as  a  whole  ?  in achieving a low carbon future. Leadership is needed and we are determined  to  provide  that  leadership  as  we  pursue  our responsible business strategy.

Sam Laidlaw
Chief Executive

----------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Supplementary Information 

Centrica achieved a great deal in 2009 in what was a very challenging business environment and I am delighted to present  this report  which  describes our corporate responsibility (CR) progress during  the year. It highlights how CR is central to our business strategy  and demonstrates our ambition for Centrica  to be a CR leader.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Centrica 2010 

Chief Executive¡¯s introduction

Our new CR strategy has given us a better framework for our activities, with an emphasis on identifying ways in which Centrica can reduce carbon emissions. This is a role we are uniquely placed to fulfil through our customer relationships, the skills of our service engineers and our expertise in sourcing energy and generating power. There are significant new market opportunities in helping to deliver a low carbon society; building trust in this area will enable us to grow our business, while delivering environmental and social benefits to society.

Our flagship programme focuses on delivering ¡®energy for a low carbon world¡¯, through decarbonising power generation, helping our customers cut their carbon emissions and reducing our own internal footprint. To achieve this, we need to build trust among all our stakeholders and this is the role of our four supporting focus areas ? prioritising safety, supplying energy needs, building and maintaining customer trust and developing our people. These are in turn underpinned by responsible business practices and behaviours. We track progress against all of these through key performance indicators and via stakeholder dialogue and feedback.

We have made good progress against our CR strategy in 2010, reducing our UK carbon intensity by 26%, moving forward with our wind farm developments and receiving our first nuclear power from our investment in British Energy. We are also helping customers cut their carbon footprint through energy efficiency and new technologies such as microgeneration and smart meters.

However, we must also ensure that we secure sufficient gas and electricity for our residential and business customers and ensure energy is affordable; meeting all of these challenges together is not easy.

We are already securing UK supplies through new LNG deals and by continuing to invest in wind, nuclear and CCGT generation assets. However, the consensus is that ?200bn needs to be invested in UK energy infrastructure by 2020, a huge sum. We also face challenges in keeping energy affordable in an environment of rising international commodity costs. Our focus is on helping customers to reduce bills through energy efficiency and behaviour change, and on providing additional support to our most vulnerable customers.

What is apparent is that we cannot achieve our low carbon goals in isolation. In September 2010, I set out what I believe is needed from the industry, government and consumers to achieve a low carbon economy.

The investment in lower carbon generation does however come at a price. Unless we are able to offset this increase with increased consumption savings, higher household bills are inevitable. We need to be honest about this as an industry and as a nation and continue to take steps to protect the most vulnerable in our society.

Centrica¡¯s business model is now better balanced and well placed to thrive with the majority of our energy being sourced from our own low carbon sources. The opportunity for us is to help our customers through our growing services businesses to reduce both their fuel bills for today and their emissions for tomorrow.

The changes we are making in the business are dramatic and I would like to thank all our employees for the flexibility and continued commitment they have shown throughout the year. Their vigilance has also been instrumental in achieving continued improvement in our safety record in 2010, with a further 16% reduction in the lost time injury rate.

These are just a few of the highlights from Centrica¡¯s CR programme in 2010. I am proud of the progress we have made this year and I invite you to explore this online report to find out more and leave your feedback.

Sam Laidlaw
Chief Executive

----------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Supplementary Information 

In last year¡¯s corporate responsibility (CR) report  I discussed the changing shape of our business and how we responded by developing a new CR strategy.  In 2010 we have focused  on implementing that strategy  and pursuing opportunities that lead the drive to a low carbon  world.  I am delighted to present  our 2010 CR Report, which  sets out our progress during  the year and addresses  some of the challenges that we face.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Centrica 2011 
Chief Executive¡¯sreview

In the UK, wholesale gas  commodity prices rose  by 30%  during 2011, driven by global factors  including instability in the Middle East and  North Africa and  the Fukushima nuclear  disaster. In North America, Direct Energy faced  difficult market  conditions for the retail energy  supply  business and  continued low gas and  power  prices  in our core  markets.

Despite  these challenges we made good  progress implementing our strategy. We continued our programme of investment in diverse  energy  supplies and  low carbon generation, moving closer  to producing first power  at our Lincs offshore  wind farm in late 2012. 1.7m  vulnerable households benefited in 2011  from British Gas initiatives that included  a discounted tariff, interest  free loans and payment assistance, household grants and  free energy efficiency advice.  We have expanded into new markets in North America, nearly doubling 
our customer base in the US North East.

Public perceptions of the energy  sector are different in North America and the UK.
In North America, wholesale gas  prices  have remained low and  Direct Energy has  seen a healthy improvement in customer satisfaction, as measured by net promoter scores. In the UK, British Gas  also saw  improving customer satisfaction scores, as well as decreases in customer complaints. Despite  these operational improvements, our brand  is less well trusted than before.  Research indicates this is due  to factors  that are impacting  the wider energy  sector as well as British Gas.

Retail price increases, driven by the wholesale market, coincided with pressure on household income  for many of our customers due to the economic downturn. In the UK, although bills were actually lower than the previous  year, the scale  of unit price increases driven by factors  outside the direct control of energy  suppliers has  resulted in public frustration with a consequent erosion of trust in the energy  sector.

We are acutely aware  that the poor economic climate in the UK is impacting  household budgets and  that any increase in energy  prices  will cause hardship for some and  be poorly received  by many. We therefore need to do what we can to provide affordable  energy.

One of the most  significant ways we help customers manage their energy  costs is by making their homes more  energy  efficient. Over the past five years  we¡¯ve helped  to insulate  more  than 2.5m  customer homes in the UK. We continued to promote the energy  efficiency measures that reduce bills and  also help to cut carbon emissions. And, through our Carbon Emissions Reduction Target  obligation we delivered  more  than 14.6m tonnes of lifetime carbon savings  in 2011. British Gas was  the first energy  company to offer free insulation to our entire customer base and  has  now extended this offer still further to customers of our partner organisations.

We¡¯ve also embarked on a programme of ?500m of internal efficiency savings  to help minimise operating costs and  enable us to continue to offer competitive prices  and  products. Regrettably this required  the loss of some 760 jobs in 2011 and  I am grateful for the co-operation and  professionalism shown by all of our employees during this process.
Our people play a vital role in achieving our goals  and  the quality of service  to which we aspire.  We continue to invest in their careers to develop  the skills we need. In 2011, we invested more  than ?20m in our academies and apprenticeships.

We cannot shield our customers from the long-term trend  towards higher energy  prices,  but we remain committed to fair pricing and strive to explain energy  prices  more clearly. British Gas launched the Honest Conversation in 2011  to explain the factors  behind  energy  prices  to UK consumers and  raise the quality of the debate. Not only are commodity costs increasing due  to worldwide  growth  in demand for oil and  gas,  but also more  locally, the third party costs we are obliged to pay for transportation, distribution  and  the environmental levies to support renewables and  encourage carbon reduction are an increasing component of the bill. We look to the Government and  the Regulator  to help foster a realistic discussion with the British people about energy  prices  and the need for major investment to pay for future energy  security  and lower carbon emissions.

A significant level of investment is required  in the UK energy  industry ? an estimated
?200bn by 2020  ? to provide energy  security and  lower carbon emissions. Two factors
are critical to making this viable: a profitable energy  sector operating within stable tax and  regulatory  frameworks; and  an improvement in public understanding of the economics of energy  prices  leading to a restoration of trust in our industry. Centrica  has  a central  role to play in steering the UK towards a future of affordable,  secure and  environmentally  responsible energy.

In North America, the precise challenges are different, but our aims are the same ? to seek  opportunities to grow our business in a sustainable manner. We will continue to work with determination to achieve  this wherever  we operate.

I look forward to reporting  our progress to you next year and  welcome feedback on our efforts to date.

Sam  Laidlaw
Chief Executive

----------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Supplementary Information 

2011 was a challenging year. But our integrated business model  proved resilient and our people delivered a strong result.

¡°As an energy company, we recognise that our business activities impact the communities we serve and the environments in which we operate. Understanding and managing these impacts will help contribute towards strong, healthy societies and sustainable environments for current and future generations. Our corporate responsibility approach drives our ability to deliver our business strategy in a sustainable manner.¡±
Sam Laidlaw
Chief Executive

¡°We¡¯ve embarked on a programme of ?500m  of internal efficiency  savings to be a leaner  business and  support our competitive position in challenging markets¡±

