------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ Caterpillar Inc. 2012

I can describe Caterpillar¡¯s strategy in one word ? customers. We wake up thinking about our customers every day. What do they need? How can we add more value? What challenges do they face?

Of course each and every customer is unique, but there are a few needs that our customers share across the board. Whether a small contractor with a single machine, or a multinational mining company; whether in Brazil or India; just about every customer talks to me about how we can help them operate more efficiently. They want to move materials quickly, safely and efficiently ? in short, they want to operate more sustainably.

When our customers talk, we listen. When they have a problem big or small, we are there to support them. But when our customers all agree, when they have a common concern, we focus the full power of the Caterpillar team to find solutions.

And the role technology plays is significant in finding those solutions.

You might be surprised to learn about all of the high-tech features in our products. Many of our large mining trucks can be customized to drive themselves, supervised from the comfort of a control room, and our dozers can be operated by remote control. Our internal combustion process is more difficult to simulate than the process that powers the space shuttle. Most of our machines and engines are designed to run 10,000 hours before overhaul ? equivalent of 500,000 miles on your car. Our machines are designed to be rebuilt two or three times. We have designed engines that meet each new tier of emissions standards, the latest being Tier 4, which, in its final phase, will take particulate matter and NOx emissions to near-zero levels. This has been accomplished without sacrificing power or performance, and with a 5 to 20 percent decrease in fuel consumption. Our dealers and customers can watch many of their products working on their smartphones ? Cat¢ç Product LinkTM gives them real-time data on product health, performance, uptime and fuel consumption. I could go on and on, but you get the picture.

Being a world-class manufacturer requires excellence in innovation, but we rarely innovate simply for the sake of making something new. Instead, we use our technology to solve problems.

Sustainability and innovation at Caterpillar is a bit of a ¡°chicken and the egg¡± dilemma. I don¡¯t know which is first ? whether innovation helps our customers be more sustainable, or the need to be more sustainable helps us become more innovative. Either way, it¡¯s a good thing!

At Caterpillar, helping our customers operate in a more sustainable manner is one of our biggest drivers of innovation. In 2012, we invested $2.5 billion in research and development.

Our approximately 10,000 engineers and technologists worked on solutions involving natural gas and alternative fuels, advanced hybrid technology, electronics to enable autonomy, and remote control and advanced power trains to enable better fuel consumption, responsiveness and traction control.

All of these research themes have one thing in common ? they are aimed at helping our customers operate more efficiently, often with less impact on people and the environment. And they all fit in with the three principles of sustainability we adopted in 2012.

You¡¯ll read more about our sustainability principles later in this report, focusing on preventing waste, improving quality and developing better systems. You¡¯ll see terrific examples of how these principles have been applied to improve the sustainability of our processes, products, services and solutions. What I like about the principles is that they are simple, yet effective, and they are relevant to all aspects of our operations, our supply chain and our customers¡¯ needs, as well as the environment and the communities in which we live and work.

When I look at our sustainability principles and our technology efforts, it becomes clear we are making great strides in sustainability through our innovation efforts. We aren¡¯t trying to be flashy. We aren¡¯t trying to make headlines. We are simply working hard every day to help our customers and our communities succeed.

------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ Caterpillar Inc. 2013

The world¡¯s resources support seven billion people today, and will need to support nine billion by 2050. As the world¡¯s population increases, demand for resources and infrastructure will increase, too. Sustainable progress to meet these needs and support economic growth will remain absolutely necessary. 

Caterpillar is uniquely positioned to be a leader in making this sustainable progress possible. Our commitment is longstanding because we know we can be profitable while also best serving our planet and its people by promoting the common good. This is not something we discovered recently; it can be traced back to the Caterpillar Worldwide Code of Conduct first published in 1974. For 40 years, our Code has provided a common ground for our business life values. Since 2005, these have been Our Values in Action: 

? Integrity: The Power of Honesty
? Excellence: The Power of Quality
? Teamwork: The Power of Working Together
? Commitment: The Power of Responsibility

I¡¯m proud that in early 2014 we honored our longstanding commitment and recognized sustainability as another value: 

? Sustainability: The Power of Endurance.

Sustainability has been included for years as a part of our value of Commitment, clearly stating our responsibility to produce sustainable solutions. Raising sustainability to a stand-alone value acknowledges both what we have done in the past and will do in the future.

For Caterpillar, sustainability is an enterprise-wide approach we apply to our own operations, as well as a guide for our suppliers, dealers and customers.

We make sustainable progress possible by:

? Leveraging innovation and technology,
? Increasing productivity,
? Using resources more efficiently,
? Reducing environmental impacts and 
? Contributing to the communities where we live and work.

We know that to endure, our company and operations must operate in a sustainable manner. What does this mean to our stakeholders? 

To our customers, it means enduring products, services and solutions. Our brands represent long-lasting quality, and our products and solutions help our customers operate more efficiently. Through innovation, we focus on providing products that are more fuel-efficient and require less oil and fluids to operate. Our customers build the infrastructure, supply the power and transport the goods that support economic growth in developing and developed nations alike, and support Caterpillar¡¯s efforts to help make that growth sustainable. 

To our stockholders, it means sustainable development strategies and leading-edge products that promote customer loyalty and ensure Caterpillar prospers for another 90 years, and longer. 

To our people, it means working for a company they can be proud of, for many reasons. We have a robust risk management process that includes anti-bribery, anti-corruption and other programs and training designed to support Our Values in Action. We¡¯ve reduced our Recordable Injury Frequency to a world class 0.78 level in 2013. We have strong employee training and development programs, intentional efforts to find and retain the most qualified and diverse employees, and are dedicated to diversity and inclusion. 

We also invest in and support the communities where we live and work through the United Way, and generous nonprofit gift matching and volunteer programs at our facilities worldwide. We support the Caterpillar Foundation, which has invested more than $550 million since 1952 to boost economic growth and quality of life around the world. 

I encourage you to take the time to read the details presented in this report. I believe Caterpillar is second to none in our commitment to sustainable progress. 

------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ Caterpillar Inc. 2014

Local Citizen: Making Sustainable Progress Possible One Community at a Time

Caterpillar is the world¡¯s largest manufacturer of heavy equipment, so sometimes it¡¯s hard for people to make the connection between our business and our commitment to sustainability. For me, it¡¯s not hard at all. It¡¯s who we are and what we do every day. We protect the health and safety of ourselves and others. We innovate to make our products more efficient and to prevent waste. We support infrastructure development and environmental responsibility. 

We are a diverse global team striving to build a better world, one community at a time.

We elevated Sustainability to one of Our Values in Action in 2014, but sustainability is not new to us, not at all. ¡°Making Sustainable Progress Possible¡± has long been a cornerstone commitment to our customers, stockholders and employees. We have also long known that sustainable progress requires balancing the economic, environmental and social aspects of our business. 

This report presents example after example of how we are contributing to that progress and balance. Sustainability drives innovation at Caterpillar ? through innovation and technology, we reduce resource consumption, emissions and their associated costs. 

Sustainability drives innovation.



In these pages, you¡¯ll learn about innovations like Solar Turbines¡¯ new SoLoNOx¢â technology that reduces NOx emissions from gas turbines; and innovations that combine the best attributes of existing solutions ? like Caterpillar Marine¡¯s new twin fin propulsion system that is robust, easy to maintain and, because it¡¯s compact, doesn¡¯t compromise maneuverability or cargo space. This report highlights innovations with the potential to transform an industry ? like our Intelligent Compaction system that enables paving machines to achieve desired criteria on a new roadway in as little as a single pass. That increases productivity and safety, and reduces fuel consumption and CO2 emissions.

Sustainability drives innovation in our internal operations, too ? like the transportation and packaging process improvements in Building Construction Products facilities around the world. These facilities and their suppliers have worked together closely, and now we have fewer, more efficient shipments. This has increased safety and reduced processing time, CO2 emissions and costs. 

Wherever Caterpillar designs, develops, builds and sells, we recognize and respect our responsibility to build a better world. We envision a world in which people¡¯s basic needs ? including shelter, clean water, sanitation, food and reliable energy ? are fulfilled in an environmentally sustainable way. Our facilities, products, services and solutions focus on using resources efficiently as we strive to achieve that vision. 

And we do it, one community at a time.

We reclaim, recycle and remanufacture.

In greenhouses, our generator sets not only generate power efficiently; they also use CO2 beneficially to aid plant growth. This means many parts of the world have year-round access to food and flowers that they might not have otherwise. Mining reclamation sites use Cat¢ç equipment to grade and restore land, returning it to its native state. You¡¯ll read about a North Dakota site that I visited during the year, where a landscape that not long ago was producing vital mineral ore has transformed again, back into rolling hills, woods and grassy fields.

We are especially proud that, for more than 40 years, we have been remanufacturing our products and parts, restoring them to be as strong and useful to our customers as if they bought them brand new. Over the last 10 years, Caterpillar¡¯s worldwide remanufacturing operations have recycled morethan 500,000 tons of materials, keeping them out of landfills or scrap heaps. Our remanufacturing work alone has kept over 1,000,000 tons of greenhouse gas out of the atmosphere. In June, I shared a detailed history of Caterpillar¡¯s commitment to sustainability with our shareholders.

Sustainability builds communities.

In this report, you¡¯ll also read about our continued safety record improvements. Our safety record is among the best of any industrial company today. In 2014, we decreased our Recordable Injury Frequency to 0.71. That¡¯s a 9 percent reduction from 2013. I think about how lives are better when injuries are avoided. We started our intense journey to improve safety more than a decade ago, and we¡¯ll never let up.

And our employees live in the communities near the Caterpillar facilities where they work, so we are personally interested in preserving and improving those communities. I think our people are proud of Caterpillar¡¯s work in their neighborhoods, all over the world. We¡¯ve included just a few examples in this report, including employees in Nashville, Tenn., who provide pro bono legal services and employees in Brazil who are preserving native plants. 

The Caterpillar Foundation supports dozens and dozens of efforts like these through grants that are targeted to alleviate the root causes of poverty and provide paths to self-sufficiency and prosperity. Since its formation in 1952, the Caterpillar Foundation has given hundreds of millions of dollars to support sustainable progress for families and communities across the globe. Sustainable progress is not possible without access to reliable, clean and affordable energy, water, food and shelter. At Caterpillar, we support the development of all of these. 

Energy access is fundamental to prosperity.

Caterpillar knows that energy is fundamental to higher living standards and economic growth. We support traditional fossil fuels and technology that will make those fuels burn more efficiently. We are also pursuing innovations that utilize alternative and renewable resources. 

Whether it¡¯s our industrial engines that support energy production; our machines that excavate and build new dams and power plants; our generator sets that power medical clinics; or our diesel-electric locomotives that transport food and materials across countries ? Caterpillar actively leads the world in creating better conditions for economic growth and opportunity. 

We are a company built on values; 2015 is our 90th anniversary as a company living and operating according to those values. We are a global team, the best there is, and we will continue to make sustainable progress possible one community at a time.
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- GE 2004
Letter to Shareholders,

Dear Friends,

How can  these   goals  be  met by  a  company with  more   than
300,000 employees and 500 manufacturing and assembly plants and  dozens of other operating locations around the world?
?  By insisting that every GE employee and  every GE leader become a part of our EHS  team.
?  By empowering our 1,000 outstanding EHS  professionals to develop  and  drive EHS  processes and  metrics into  the  company¡¯s operating system.
?  By making EHS  performance something that is measured and  valued  across  GE ? something that is embedded in our DNA.
We set our  expectations high  and  we are  committed to full compliance with environmental laws and  regulations. We apply world-class standards for compliance and safety no matter where  we do business. We provide more  EHS  training than any other company in the world  and  we apply Six Sigma resources and  dig- ital tools to achieve  our goals. We regularly review our progress and make  the results visible to leadership.
We believe our results are outstanding but it isn¡¯t our opinion that matters. It is up to you and other stakeholders to decide  if we have lived up to our responsibilities. In doing  so, we hope you will consider some of our successes and  our plans  for improvement.

For example, 2003 was our best year ever for safety:
?  We reduced our injury rate  12% and  our Lost Time  rate  by nearly  18% over 2002.
?  This means we had  820 fewer worker injuries than
in 2002, saving  the company more  than $5 million in direct costs over 2002.

GE is one  of the  world  leaders when  it comes  to employee safety. We are among the leaders in sites certi?ed under the U.S. Occupational  Safety and   Health Administration¡¯s  Voluntary Protection Program. We also extend this  excellence to our sites around the  world.  GE now has  nearly  80  sites  outside the  U.S. that have  been  certi?ed as being  the  best  of the  best  when  it comes to safety.
There are  two areas  where  we  are  not  satis?ed with  our  progress. While  we have fewer  injuries every year, we still had  four employee fatalities in 2003. The other area  is wastewater exceedances, where  we are not seeing the big year-to-year reduc- tions  we¡¯ve seen  in the  past.  We¡¯ ll be refocusing our  efforts  to drive more  progress on this in 2004.
Finally,  we are extremely proud of our product story. GE is the  world¡¯s leading manufacturer of energy-ef?cient power generation equipment and consumer products. GE is supporting government energy  ef?ciency programs around the world. Our Consumer and Industrial business recently was named the Energy Star Partner of the Year by the U.S. Department of Energy and U.S. Environmental Protection Agency  for  our  commitment to  providing energy- ef?cient appliances and lighting products.
We are proud of the job our employees are doing  to protect our environment, to work safely and  to be a good neighbor. We hope you will conclude that GE is doing  a good job to protect our  environment, to work safely and  to be a good neighbor. We know  it¡¯s our responsibility.

?  We added 31 sites to our expanding list of GE facilities that have been  certi?ed as meeting the highest standards for safety excellence.

Jeffrey R.Immelt
Chairman of the Board
and Chief Executive Of?cer

Stephen D.Ramsey 
Vice President  Environmental Programs

----------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Supplementary information 

What does it mean to be ¡°responsible¡± when it comes to protecting the environment and the health and safety of your employees?  At GE, the answers  come down to a clear set of goals we pursue relentlessly every day:
? comply with the law wherever we do business;
? keep our people safe on the job;
? be good neighbors in the communities where we live and work;
? address historical contamination issues cooperatively and completely; and,
? incorporate this vision into our processes and products.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- GE 2005

A Letter from Jeff Immelt 
Chairman of the Board and CEO, General Electric Company

Dear Friends,
GE¡¯s heritage  of leadership  spans the terms of nine chairmen, generations of employees  and decades of business transfor-  mation. We have a history of ?rsts in technological innova- tions and in management practices  that have in?uenced the way businesses grow and lead. And we are known for a per- formance culture that consistently delivers results. But these  accomplishments alone will not ensure  our leadership  in the future. Leaders and companies that seek to continue  to lead must perform with an unyielding integrity that earns the trust  of our stakeholders ? integrity in our relations with customers and suppliers; integrity in our disclosure to shareholders and creditors; integrity in our products;  integrity in our relation- ships with our employees; integrity in our compliance  with legal and ?nancial rules; and integrity in our interactions with regulators,  media and communities.

GE has consistently re?ned and increased its citizenship efforts as the Company has grown. So while this report presents progress in our long-standing efforts in areas such as compli- ance, and environmental health and safety, it also illuminates two areas in which we believe GE can proactively and positively in?uence the practice of business and its impact: 1) governance and 2) global natural resources and demographics.

Governance:
Making Integrity Visible
Over the past few years, we have made substantial progress in our governance practices  and strengthened our long- standing  commitment to performance with integrity. We have substantially increased disclosure and improved transparency, and we have implemented controllership  processes ahead of regulatory timelines. Our engaged and independent board has led the effort to align CEO and executive compensation with investor interests.

Global Resources and Demographics: Investing to Meet Future Needs
By taking a broad view of fundamental global trends, including energy consumption, the growing need for more renewable energy sources, and the increasing scarcity of potable water, GE can help address important  global issues while laying the foundation for our future growth. Our Company is developing wind and water technologies that provide renewable energy and clean water, and is developing more energy-ef?cient products such as hybrid locomotives, gas turbines and ENERGY STAR appliances.

GE is also looking at demographic trends  that will create  global needs  and business opportunities in the years ahead. One compelling example is re?ected in healthcare;  as people across the world are living longer, more of them are suffering from diseases including Alzheimer¡¯s, heart disease and cancer. GE has invested in businesses that give it the scale and broad reach needed to transform  the way medicine is practiced, and we are developing more advanced programs that can result
in much earlier diagnoses and more speci?cally targeted ther- apies. GE also continues to invest research and development dollars in technologies to offer greater access  to and higher quality of care.

These are cases where a lack of resources and a surge in demographic trends  are directing our business strategy while also allowing us to solve real customer problems  that can contribute positively to the quality of life. To me, opportunities to do business and do good are not mutually exclusive, nor
are they less valuable for having a positive business impact . This marriage of business opportunity with global need can create  a model that our own Company and others will see as an opportunity to deliver more than ?nancial performance and have a far-reaching  impact .

GE, by virtue of its products and services, and its performance, plays a vital role in both business and society. In fact , I believe that we have the opportunity to make an impact that few companies can ? in ways that improve how we live and how we work. However, we are still a company working to stay competitive, return value to shareholders, develop our employ- ees and make a positive difference to all of our constituents. This is never an easy balance. But I am an optimist . As a learn- ing company, GE will continue  to examine where we can make a difference, and how we can improve. We are committed, to performance with integrity and to being a good global citizen.

Jeffrey R. Immelt
Chairman of the Board
and Chief Executive Of?cer

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- GE 2006

A letter from Jeff Immelt

Dear Friends,

Today, even as the world has seemingly grown smaller through the enablement of technology, communications, travel and a global economy, it has also grown bigger through the demographics of population growth and all of its subsequent needs? healthcare, housing and clean water to name a few.
Within this new landscape, our opportu- nities and responsibilities as a company are greater, and our response is more important than ever before. In an era when the idea of ¡°big¡± is often viewed as a negative, we see the potential of ¡°big¡± with great optimism. We call this year¡¯s report ¡°Solving Big Needs.¡± It¡¯s a look at how one company sees its responsibility, mission and place in the world.
Making an impact on big problems takes two qualities. We must be a great company? with the capability, reach and resources to make a difference. But we must also be a good company?because true impact means de?ning success in ways that go well beyond the bottom line.
There is an alignment between the world¡¯s most pressing needs and the areas of our most aggressive investment . As the world¡¯s need for cleaner, ef?cient forms of energy grows, we are creating new technology and building new capacity to meet those needs. As sources of clean water become scarce, our ?ltration and desalination technologies expand supplies. Our technologies and products are making possible a new era of ef?ciency and environmental performance in rail and aircraft engines. Our leadership in diagnostics and biosciences puts us on the front lines of a revolution in how we can see and treat the human body. We are at the forefront of new processes and structures? like nanotechnology?with potential so
great the world is just beginning to grasp the possibilities.
Beyond these market-facing efforts, we believe that we can have a positive impact through the way we manage size within our own walls. This report details our systems of governance, compliance and our Environment , Health & Safety programs that bene?t from the rigor and oversight that size requires. It provides metrics that show where we are improving?and where we must continue to focus to raise our perfor- mance to our aspirations.
Clearly, we have the resources and focus to make an impact across a range of press- ing needs. But does that alone de?ne a good company? Not entirely.
The difference is in how we engage with all those who have a stake in our success, the standards we set for ourselves, and our responsibility to the world around us. The baseline is integrity. We believe a company? especially a leader with our visibility?must perform with integrity in its interactions with customers, employees, regulators and communities. A good company leads by example, not words.
In this report we offer a closer look at two areas where an innovative company and a better world come together. One is our portfolio of ecomagination products and services. The other is how we are help- ing to provide the infrastructure to improve economies and lives in emerging markets.
¡°Solving Big Needs¡± is an aspiration that inspires us?and reminds us of our responsi- bility and our challenges. Each year we strive to reach the right balance and ful?ll our opportunity to be both a great company? and a good one.


Jeffrey R. Immelt
Chairman of the Board
and Chief Executive Of?cer, General Electric Company

----------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Supplementary Information

Since GE¡¯s inception, its fortunes as a company and its impact on society have been inextricably linked. Inventions like the light bulb and the X-ray, the ?rst U.S. jet engine and television broadcasting have all had an in?uence that is much more far- reaching than ?nancial performance alone.
This simple idea of interdependence between business and society remains at the heart of our Company. What has changed, however, is the size and scope of our Company and of the growing needs of society.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------


A letter from Brackett Denniston and Bob Corcoran

Dear Friends,

GE¡¯S CITIZENSHIP  FRAMEWORK
Citizenship at GE is based upon three key interrelated dimensions.

At GE, we believe the essence of corporate citizenship is the ability to link integrity and performance so tightly and on so many lev- els that good corporate citizenship is simply part of who we are, what we do, and the results we achieve.
Good citizenship sets a challenging goal? high performance with high integrity. Citizenship at GE has three key interrelated dimensions.
Strong economic performance over a sustained period of time. Such long-term performance provides multiple bene?ts to shareholders, creditors, employees, retirees, customers, suppliers and communities.
Rigorous compliance with fundamental accounting and legal requirements. Sustained economic performance must be built on the foundation of rigorous compliance with all ?nancial and legal rules?and on compliance systems and a compliance culture that require time, effort , resources and, most importantly, leadership.
Going beyond compliance by supporting ethical actions and the reasonable concerns of stakeholders where there are opportunities to create bene?t for society and the long- term health of the enterprise.
One important way we support our culture is to tap into the power of learning?the same fundamental force that drives consistent improvement in all our businesses. By that we mean a tone and an environment of pro- ductive skepticism with the way things are. There are always better ways, and it is our job to ?nd them?whether that is growing a business or reporting our results or building our communities.
You¡¯ll see the results of our continuous improvement in citizenship throughout the company. At the same time, in this report we have highlighted the following four speci?c areas in which we aspire to be a leader:

Ecomagination?accelerating the develop- ment, marketing and visibility of products that will help our customers meet pressing environmental issues across a variety
of industries. We have also set ambitious targets for reducing the emission of greenhouse gases and increasing the energy ef?ciency of our operations.

Emerging Markets?a vital part of GE¡¯s growth strategy in the years ahead?but to be successful we must integrate citizenship from day one, solve big needs and create value for local communities.

Compliance and Governance?our compliance systems have brought all our business leaders into the process?not just our ?nance and legal staffs. Maintaining high standards of compliance and gover- nance supports a high performance, high integrity culture.

Environment , Health & Safety?our EHS management system is designed to establish global standards, promote business leadership, responsibility and
accountability for performance. GE does this by providing our employees with the information and training they need to meet GE¡¯s demanding EHS expectations and maintain the monitoring systems to ensure we meet these expectations everywhere we operate, including emerging markets.

We have selected these areas based on their relevance to our business today and see them as vital to maintaining our business and strengthening our citizenship performance. Further, they re?ect our belief that GE is well positioned, because of our size and scale, to solve big needs. Over time, we will identify new areas where we hope to lead.
Even with the best intentions, size and success make it easy to become insulated? even isolated?from constituencies, leading to a creeping satisfaction that because we¡¯re GE, we¡¯re right . We work hard to beat down that big-company arrogance.
The best way to ?ght that temptation is to listen. To drive continuous improvement in policies that truly address the concerns of our stakeholders, we must have a very clear understanding of what those concerns are. We work very hard to establish candid two- way communications. One example: asking our stakeholders around the world to review our ?rst Citizenship Report and to give us their ideas on the efforts it describes. We have integrated feedback from those sessions into this report and in our citizen- ship targets moving forward.

Ultimately, turning good intentions into results comes down to leadership. It¡¯s the difference between intention and impact . We are developing the kind of leaders who understand what true corporate citizenship means, and know how to drive it into the DNA of their businesses. We work with them to set the right goals. We give them the support they need. We demand account- ability. And we keep score.
This is not an effort of a few of us?but of all of us. And of that we are very proud.

Sincerely,


Brackett B. Denniston III
Senior Vice President & General Counsel


Robert L. Corcoran
Vice President , Corporate Citizenship
& Chief Learning Of?cer

----------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Supplementary Information

It is a lot easier to say you are a good corporate citizen than to be one. Citizenship is not a promise, not a program, not a set of good intentions. It is a full-time commitment?with the same kind of goals, strategies and accountabilities that drive any other part of our business.

1. Strong economic performance and stakeholder impact
2. Rigorous compliance with fundamental accounting and legal requirements
3. Going beyond compliance by supporting ethical actions

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- GE 2007

A letter from Jeff Immelt
Dear friends,

As GE¡¯s place in the global economy grows, we recognize that our products and services touch more and more people around the world. Of note, in 2007, GE will have more revenue from overseas than from within the United States. As we expand in developed and emerging markets, we will be continually challenged to ensure that we invest in a sustainable and intelligent way that leverages our financial, technical and intellectual resources to the benefit of our investors, employees and communities. 
To some, this may seem incongruous for a public company like GE whose primary mission is to make money and deliver value to investors. We don¡¯t agree. Many of our growth platforms focus on addressing some of the world¡¯s most complex challenges, espe- cially as they relate to emerging markets such as India, China or Latin America. The challenges of global warming, water scarcity and energy permeate these markets and nearly every part of the world. Our early experience with ecomagination has shown us that we can develop products to address these challenges and make money in doing so. This also reflects a growing consensus among our customers that they value technology that can preserve the environment and achieve productivity at the same time.
Though we believe we are positioned well to capitalize on global trends, risks remain. Our corporate citizenship must be aligned with our business goals in order to drive future growth and better understand and mitigate these risks. This alignment also helps us deliver on our promises while answering the needs of society. 
Over the past year, we greatly increased our dialogue with NGOs, members of government , community representatives and social welfare organizations. This dialogue has allowed us to better understand how our business goals can be aligned with commonly held social goals. The counsel we received helped strengthen our citizenship mission. 
GE¡¯s corporate citizenship strategy speaks to our strengths  
in compliance and governance, environmental technology as well as environment , health and safety policies and practices. Those strengths must be reflected and applied in how we do business in emerging markets, a key part of our future growth and success 
and an important piece of our corporate citizenship strategy. As GE brings to bear its culture of integrity and innovation in communities we serve, our expectation is that we can help to improve the quality of life for citizens, our employees and our investors. 



Jeffrey R. Immelt
Chairman of the Board
and Chief Executive Officer, General Electric Company

----------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Supplementary Information 

The 128-year history of GE is characterized by a focus on innovation, disciplined investment , superior execution and solid delivery of performance with integrity to our shareholders, our employees and society.
GE people worldwide are dedicated to turning imaginative ideas into leading products and services that do more than build the bottom line. They also help solve some of the world¡¯s toughest problems.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

A Letter from Brackett Denniston and Bob Corcoran

Dear friends,

This past year, we signi?cantly increased our engagement efforts with stakeholders to help us prioritize key issues and develop our citizenship policies. We¡¯re listening and responding to their input . We believe the future demands more collaboration, not less, and we are committed to continuing this dialogue.
The future also requires GE to remain committed to the citizenship framework we have established. The environment in which we conduct business is dynamic and challenging at times, especially as it relates to emerging markets. Our culture and  our values manifest themselves through The Spirit & The Letter a guide that helps employees understand expected standards of conduct they face increasingly challenging operating environments. The key dimen- sions of our citizenship framework include:
? Strong economic performance  over a sustained period of time
? Rigorous compliance with legal and fundamental ethical requirements
? Taking ethical actions beyond compliance to increase long-term value

This framework allows GE to identify leadership opportunities related to corporate citizenship. These opportunities are re?ected in our consistent focus on four strategic  areas in which we aspire to be   leader and which remain relevant to our long-term strategy in delivering reliable growth, as well     to strengthening   ur citizenship performance. The four  areas  cover
? Ecomagination
? Compliance & governance
? Environmen, health & safety
? Emerging markets

Our 2007 GE Citizenship Report demonstrates that ecomagination, compliance and governance, and environment, health and safety are even more  relevant as  our business grows in emerging markets.
Emerging markets are where GE¡¯s most dynamic growth opportunities lie and therefore are what drive many of our citizenship activities. These geographies present many daunting challenges:
? Emerging markets consume half of the world¡¯s energy and represent 80% of the world¡¯s population
? One billion new customers will enter the global marketplace over the next decade
? More than 1.1 billion people around the world lack access to safe water sources
? An estimated $4 trillion investment will be needed in energy, transportation, infrastructure, clean water and medical needs in emerging markets over the next eight to ten years

GE had $10 billion of emerging markets revenue  in 2000. Today, we have $29 billion and could reach $50 billion by 2010. These markets include China, India, Eastern Europe, Russia, the Middle East , Africa, Latin America and Southeast Asia, and are growing at three times the global GDP rate.
Growth in these markets is being driven by several mega trends that have   strong relationship to our citizenship efforts: changing demographics and their impact on healthcare, growing demand for global infrastructure, protecting the environment, conserving energy and natural resources, and building digital connections. As these mega trends unfold, they create big challenges in the areas  of   new infrastructure, access to energy, clean water and better healthcare for the future growth of developing countries.
GE¡¯s global breadth, size and commitment to innovation and learning enable us to better understand emerging market challenges and re?ect this understanding in our corporate citizenship efforts. GE¡¯s strategy over the last ?ve years of investing in leadership busi- nesses that respond to emerging markets and other challenges is positioning to do more than sell products. Our strategy, together with dialogue with regional stakeholders, is enabling us to tailor our products and services to understand and meet local needs. Meeting local healthcare needs with customized solutions, for example, is on strategy that is making   big impact.

It is not surprising that ?ve of our six business units identify issues related to emerging markets as   key citizenship priority. Our goal in 2007 is to take the understanding generated by our Healthcare materiality assessment exercise conducted in 2006 and extend it to the remaining GE businesses. This will allow us to have   more detailed discussion of  our citizenship priorities and share the results of those discussions with you in next year¡¯s report .
In the spirit of fostering dialogue and helping shape priorities, we implemented a Stakeholder Report Review Panel for the ?rst time this year, inviting an independent group of stakeholders to review and contribute to the development of this year¡¯s report. Their letter is included in this report and their involvement will be ongoing for future reports.
As GE builds its future, we recognize that venturing into emerging markets is not without its complexities, such as ensuring the protection of human rights within our sphere of in?uence. While GE is uniquely positioned with its products and services to deliver and meet needs in emerging markets, we also have the ability to capitalize on opportunities in   responsible way. This year¡¯s report presents our role in emerging markets, both from   business perspective of how we¡¯re capitalizing on the opportunity through growth initiatives such as the Value Products from GE Healthcare, and from citizenship perspective of addressing the associated risks, such human rights.
By joining   peer company network, the Business Leaders¡¯ Initiative on Human Rights (BLIHR), GE is able to work with other member companies to ?nd practical ways of applying the aspirations of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights within a business context and inspiring other businesses to do likewise. Last year we committed to developing a Statement of Principles on Human Rights, and we have delivered on that commitment with much thoughtful input from   our stakeholders.
For GE, good citizenship is assuring that our values and focus are consistent. As we  expand into   new areas, we  will continue to appreciate how our values and priorities apply and how we  can continue to invest in a sustainable future.



Brackett B. Denniston III
Senior Vice President & General Counsel



Robert L. Corcoran
Vice President , Corporate Citizenship
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Supplementary Information 
GE believes that corporate citizenship is so tightly linked with integrity and performance that they become one and the same, making good citizenship a way of life at GE and a natural part of the way we work. Delivering ?nancial results while investing in a sustainable future is a responsibility we take seriously.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- GE 2008

Dear Friends,

As industries are restructured, strategic engagement with government has become critical. Performance on issues such as climate change and human rights is becoming integral to value creation. At GE, we have been preparing for this ? and in fact , the ability to anticipate and adapt to this reset is fundamental
to our success. We believe that business leaders who not only understand ? but also embrace ? this type of shift will prosper.
As a leader committed to corporate social responsibility, I have gained no solace in watching some focus on short-term
gain with little regard to commitment  or accountability, a sort
of corporate social detachment. In a world of short-term interests and rewards, GE understands that success is profoundly about the long term, for the business, for our investors, and for our stakeholders.

We are committed to staying true to our core values in these difficult times and believe that our responsible business practices are critical in helping us and our communities to weather the storm. GE¡¯s integrity, our experience and our focus on the social needs of health, infrastructure, energy, finance, and education position us as a natural partner in managing a sustainable economic recovery. This economic meltdown has been tough on

GE investors, retirees, employees, customers, and other important stakeholders, but we continue to focus on our core values and the long term.

In the early years of my career, I had a typical businessperson¡¯s reluctance to seek external opinions. A reset world brings a renewed opportunity to engage. Success in tomorrow¡¯s markets means working with stakeholders to understand, predict ,
and shape our future environment and ways of living. Tackling important problems together will require teamwork and respect. Transparency and accountability will be more important than ever.

Through this report we open the doors to GE: sharing our commit- ments and progress. But a rear-view mirror of performance is
of limited use in driving forward. Therefore, this year ¡¯s report starts with a discussion of the challenges that lie ahead. We
do not have all the answers, but we know that the way to find them is through ongoing dialogue and debate, hard work, and decisive leadership.

One thing that is clear is that interconnected global markets remain the essential foundation for innovation, economic growth, and better lives. GE both contributes and benefits as a result
of our globalization. By integrating responsible citizenship into what we do, engaging thoughtfully with our stakeholders, and working to solve societal problems, we continue to build a better company and a better world for all our stakeholders.

Sincerely,



Jeffrey R. Immelt
Chairman of the Board
and Chief Executive Officer

---------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Supplementary Information 

The global financial meltdown we have experienced doesn¡¯t just represent the low point in the economic cycle; it represents a ¡°reset .¡± As a result, government, business, and society must all play a role in recharging our economies, solving societal problems, and creating jobs.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- GE 2009

From Reset to Renewal
A Letter from Jeff Immelt

Dear Friends,

Change must come, requiring a new way of thinking. It requires a clear and determined plan of action. It requires candor about the troubles we face. It requires leaders throughout the economy to take command of events. And the only way to sustain a real competitive advantage is to invest in innovation and growth.

While GE is focused on the future, we also have a long heritage in citizenship. We are the oldest remaining company in the Dow Jones Industrial Average. This is not because we are a perfect company; it is because we adapt and remain competitive. We globalized the company while investing massive amounts in technology, products and services. In restructuring during the downturn, we also increased our investments, repositioning
the company and putting us on a value-creating path in a dramati- cally changed ?nancial services industry.

The global economy is getting better, but in the near term, consum- ers in the United States and Europe will be more focused on saving, and the emerging market will be the real engine of growth. More than half of GE¡¯s revenue is from outside the United States, increasingly from emerging markets such as China and Brazil.
As a result , we are poised to launch more new products at more prices than at any time in our history ? and we plan to sell these products in every corner of the world.

As I see it , the two biggest global challenges ? and the two that may have the biggest impact on us as human beings ? are clean energy and affordable healthcare.

On clean energy, we believe that wise investments and enlight- ened policies can provide us with far greater energy diversity and security while reducing global warming. We made a business decision to develop new products focussed on energy use and environmental stewardship. Solving the clean energy challenge will create broad economic opportunity ? and jobs. And we¡¯re looking to support a low-carbon economy in emerging and developing markets.

Our ecomagination commitment has created thousands of jobs at GE and in our supply chain. Governments can play a role in this leadership. For example, if the U.S. would drive a renewable energy standard of 12 percent of energy supplies coming from renewables

by 2012 ? up from ?ve percent today ? it could create thousands of green jobs. And jobs are the currency of today. Whether I am in Riyadh, Paris, Delhi, New York or Washington, D.C. ? the only thing that people want to talk about is who can create jobs and growth. If you can create the opportunity for commerce, not only are you more sustainable, but you are also welcomed in any region.

In the future, we can also increase affordable healthcare. GE is also a long-term investor and innovator in healthcare. Through healthymagination, we are doing all we can to improve the access, affordability and quality of healthcare. Over the next six years, we will spend $3 billion to create at least 100 healthcare innovations that will substantially lower costs, increase access and improve quality.

All of this is within our reach.

Successful companies can only create solutions to some of the world¡¯s toughest problems by working collaboratively. Business must engage ? with communities, governments, customers and each other ? because the status quo is not an option. It is not only possible for a global business leader to be a good citizen, but a requirement .

GE¡¯s impact on healthcare is not complete without a discussion of our willingness to partner, as one key aspect of renewal is a spirit of public-private partnership. Today, people want to see business and government work together, both in the U.S. and globally, to drive innovation, employment and growth. These partnerships will be the catalyst of positive growth and change. We have to engage with governments from Berlin to Washington to Beijing to Brussels to Tokyo.

Based on a commitment to integrity, a commitment to performance and a commitment to learn and grow stronger, GE is creating a better company coming out of this reset ? a renewed focus that is better for GE, and also better for our world.

Sincerely,

Jeffrey R. Immelt
Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Of?cer

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Supplementary Information 

In light of what many have called the Great Recession, the world is reset. Now we must lead an aggressive renewal to win the future. This year¡¯s report, Renewing Responsibilities, examines GE¡¯s partnerships with our employees, business partners and communities ? in jointly tackling the world¡¯s most complex and pressing problems. The key question is, where can GE apply its innovation, knowledge and expertise to create new products and services while helping to solve these tough problems.

---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Board Member Perspective
A Letter from Sam Nunn

Dear Readers,

This report represents the evolution of GE¡¯s effort to continually challenge ourselves to be more trans- parent, more accessible, and more cognizant of our impact on society and the environment. It provides a snapshot of how we are progressing on this long term journey towards sustainability in an ever-evolving global marketplace.

More than 60 percent of the world¡¯s population is living on less than 4 dollars per day. Industrialized economies face increased job losses and severe ?scal and economic pressures. Globally, we face serious economic, energy, water, environmental, and security challenges.

Citizenship is not a spectator sport. Companies with global reach and impact like GE must set commercial priorities to increase shareholder value while recognizing that our business foundation rests on forward progress on public policy imperatives. GE is making a dedicated effort to develop its business strategy so that its products and services have a positive human impact and produce long-term business success.

Millions of decisions made by hundreds of thousands of GE employees determine each day whether GE is living up to its own commitments and expectations: to have a positive and sustainable impact on society and the environment .

Our public policy committee¡¯s engagement with GE¡¯s leadership focuses not only on its plans and actions, but also on how these plans are executed, particularly when reviewing compliance, safety, environmental, human rights, and other risks and opportunities. Our committee is reassured by management¡¯s commitment to ethics, integrity and sustainability in its plans and execution, by management¡¯s recognition that this commitment must be part
of the GE culture, and by management¡¯s commitment to deliver on expectations, including healthymagination and expanded ecomagination objectives.

Most importantly, our board is reassured by the GE team¡¯s understanding that we do not have all the answers ? that there is room for improvement, and that this improvement depends on
engagement and dialogue with others. Our committee is con?dent that our GE team, led by Jeff Immelt , Brackett Denniston, and Bob Corcoran, fully understand that we must listen to learn and to lead. This report re?ects this understanding and this continued GE commitment .

Sincerely,


Sam Nunn
Committee Chair, Public Responsibilities Committee and Member, GE Board of Directors

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- GE 2010

EXPERTISE
A LETTER FROM JEFF IMMELT

As the Citizenship Advisory Panel highlights in this report , the challenge of sustainable and resilient growth goes beyond what can be achieved by individual projects and programs. The key problem is how to scale up solutions to meet the size and urgency of global challenges.

The ability to innovate on a large scale is what defines GE. Over  the past 10 years, we have repositioned the Company to focus on providing the infrastructure  and financial services that growing economies depend on, and solving the global challenges of clean energy, affordable healthcare and productivity. We have tripled the amount of revenues invested back into R&D from 2% to 6%. Through local research centers and our ecomagination and healthymagination  strategies, we have developed products that
are significantly more efficient , and available at lower price points, and we have grown our business outside of the U.S. from 30% to
60% of the Company. We have done this while continuing with a commitment to high standards of integrity and social and environmental performance.

But more of the same is not enough. Sustainable growth requires solutions that go beyond the scale of individual companies, even those on the scale of GE. Nations around the world will need to
find the resources and confidence to invest in institutions
and good governance, training and skills, and infrastructure and research, to enable whole economies to transform to meet the opportunities for cleaner, greener growth. Private capital exists to fund many of these developments, but depends on the investment certainty provided by clear public policy.

We are investing in clean technologies like energy efficiency, wind and solar, nuclear, smart grid and electric vehicles, because we believe it is not a question of ¡°if¡± but ¡°when¡± the world will
shift toward more sustainable growth. We remain committed to nuclear as part of the overall energy mix, and we are committed to learning from all the events created by the horrific earthquake and tsunami in Japan.

As economies  renew, both governments and business must tackle inequality and widen opportunity. This is an agenda we are pursuing with governments around the world. In the U.S., I am working with other leaders on the President¡¯s Council on Jobs and Competitiveness to tackle the problem of persistent and high unemployment?and the pessimism it breeds.

The public investments  needed for a competitive economy all cost money, and it is part of the corporate responsibility of business to contribute a fair share of its profits.

Our approach to citizenship is to take part in conversations on issues concerning business and society, to understand and find solutions. Taxation is an important part of the broader relationship  between business, government  and society, and I welcome debate.



Jeffrey R. Immelt
Chairman of the Board
and Chief Executive Officer

----------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Supplementary Information
In our 2008 citizenship report , I wrote about a ¡°reset world¡± in which the expectations of peace and unprecedented prosperity with which we started the century had been shattered by volatility in the natural and political world and by the global financial crisis.

---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

EXPERTISE
A LETTER FROM SAM NUNN

The Public Responsibilities Committee, which I chair, considers trends and developments in legislation, regulation, risk management, and public debate around the world. We encourage and expect management to respond to society¡¯s challenges, meet its expectations, and help assure that markets reward responsibility.

We review the key public policies that the Company advocates around the globe, as well as the manner in which it conducts its relations with policy makers and regulators. We seek to ensure that the practices the Company demonstrates and the positions the Company takes are aligned to its legal and ethical commitments.

Our committee is reassured by the alignment between GE¡¯s strategy for creating sustainable value and its positions as a contributor to public policy debates. We are also reassured by management¡¯s commitment to ethics, integrity, compliance and sustainability, and by the resources and focus dedicated to implementing these commitments. GE commitments apply everywhere the Company operates, and the performance benchmarks for every  GE facility are global best practices and local legal requirements.

Our committee and the Board monitor performance, ask questions, and discuss risks related to the environment and other public policy initiatives. These relate both to GE¡¯s 130-year legacy and to new expectations that the Company must understand as they emerge. Often, the Company operates in dynamic economies where rapid growth is putting extraordinary pressure on institutional frameworks for ensuring responsibility and integrity along supply chains and in product use. Resource-rich countries in particular have their own risks, as an abundance of natural

resources can fuel corruption, economic stagnation and conflict , rather than sustainable economic development . Adopting new technologies brings other concerns about privacy, safety, intellectual properties, and environmental impact .

As an important part of our accountability process, this Citizenship Report is about specific issues of interest to stakeholders. It is also about how GE¡¯s products, services, and investments address
global imperatives in a way that sustains growth and long-term value for shareholders, employees, business partners and society. We hope that those who read this report will recognize GE¡¯s commitment and effort , test our thinking, and work with us as we help create a healthy and prosperous society, and improve an innovative, creative and profitable GE.


Sam Nunn
Committee Chair, Public Responsibilities Committee and Member, GE Board of Directors

---------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Supplementary Information 

GE¡¯s Board of Directors holds the Company accountable for delivering long-term shareholder value. Both the Board and management recognize that the long-term interests of shareholders are advanced by responsibly addressing the concerns of other stakeholders and interested parties, including employees, customers, suppliers, GE communities, government officials and the public at large. We believe that stockholders benefit when GE helps solve global and regional challenges with profitable products, services and expertise.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

EXPERTISE
A LETTER FROM BRACKETT dENNISTON & BOB CORCORAN

The themes we have been exploring, by convening discussions between GE executives and stakeholders on issues such as conflict minerals (see page 18), resource  scarcity, weak rule of law and a more volatile climate, have now moved from the margins
to the mainstream.

Creating shared value and helping to solve global problems are becoming a core benchmark measure against which businesses are judged.

Our approach to citizenship also needs to continue to evolve to ensure that we meet our own ambitions and the expectations of our stakeholders.

In particular, we need to continue to ensure that social and environmental issues are fully integrated  into the way we plan, build competencies, assess risks, manage performance and direct investments, in every  GE business and in every country
where we operate. This also means continuing to deepen the way we work with suppliers, joint-venture partners, customers, governments and communities to understand and respond to shared challenges.

Citizenship approach have focused on three priorities: measuring the Company¡¯s approach against the scale and urgency of
global challenges, responding to issues material to each locality and sector where we operate, and ensuring that investors understand the link between GE¡¯s strategy for contributing to sustainable development and creating shareowner value.

This report , and the accompanying country fact sheets, represents a snapshot of where we are in addressing these challenges.

As a business, GE is developing a more decentralized, faster and more local approach to its global business, building more integrated local teams (such as in India, where we are building ¡°One GE¡± business?see  page 22) and in many cases taking a ¡°company to country¡± growth strategy of working directly with governments to meet local needs. Our approach to citizenship must also become more localized, and we will advance this through regional dialogues bringing together GE executives and stakeholders during 2011 and beyond.

Continuously improving the Company¡¯s response to both global and local issues depends on listening and learning. Consulting with our Citizenship Advisory Panel is one way we seek to do this. Discussions with the panel about the future of our corporate

Brackett B. denniston III
Senior Vice President and General Counsel

Bob Corcoran Vice President , Corporate Citizenship

----------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Supplementary Information 

Citizenship means business at GE.
Over the past 10 years,  GE has sought to demonstrate and deepen the linkage between our role as a good corporate citizen and how we pursue opportunities to be a successful business.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- GE 2011

A Letter from Jeff Immelt

To many, these advances were unimaginable, especially given such a tumultuous economy. However, for a company in its third-century like GE, we imagine this and more. At GE, we consider our culture one of our most important assets, and an integral part of our culture is always asking what¡¯s next . Today,  we see real changes that can lead to growing economies, a sustainable environment and a better life for people and societies. The challenges between here and there only inspire us to think bigger and more creatively, to marshal resources and to work harder to help solve the world¡¯s toughest problems. Doing the right thing the right way?as you will see in the pages of this report?is how we define Citizenship.

As in previous years, this report includes a lot of information on a wide range of topics, from greenhouse gas emissions and water use to revenues and supply chain audits. The bulk of the report is focused on three areas: People, Planet and Economy. You¡¯ll see discussions about how we are working with partners and customers and helping them to succeed. You¡¯ll read about our continuing progress to reduce GE¡¯s own emissions and resource consumption, and how we help our customers do the same. You will learn about our efforts to create jobs, build sustainable businesses and tackle healthcare challenges all over the world. Ultimately, this report reflects our
belief in a better way, our relentless drive to invent and our commitment to help make the world work better.

As we work in 2012 and beyond, we¡¯re excited about delivering more efficient energy solutions, improving access to quality healthcare at lower cost , making it easier and more efficient to move people and resources to where they are needed, and contributing to stronger and more resilient economies and communities.

Building, powering, moving, curing. It¡¯s what the world needs. It¡¯s what we do.

Thank you, and I hope you enjoy the report .



Jeffrey R. Immelt
Chairman of the Board
and Chief Executive Officer

----------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Supplementary Information

A lot has changed since we began our corporate citizenship reporting eight years ago. We live in a global economy that is defined by its volatility, but at the same time, we have seen amazing changes that will forever affect our future for the better. Cleaner technologies. Increasing reserves of cleaner fuels. Stunning medical breakthroughs. Rapidly growing access to better goods and services in developing markets.


--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- GE 2012

At GE, we look at what the world needs and then apply a powerful combination: the profound belief in a better way plus a relentless drive to invent and build things that matter. The result?we believe?is a world that works better.

We are committed to solving problems for our customers and our communities, to finding solutions that benefit the planet, its people and the economy. This commitment is not only part of our business strategy; it is also embedded in our culture. Whether it is the compliant and responsible conduct of our businesses, the philanthropic activities of the GE Foundation, or the countless contributions our people make in communities around the world, we¡¯re proud to say GE Works.

Today¡¯s world is volatile and uncertain. The population is growing?there will be almost 8.5 billion people by 2030. The middle class is rising?more than 1 billion consumers will join the middle class in the emerging markets in the next few years. And by the end of this century, the global urban population will almost double.

In this environment, many people face real, substantive challenges: energy constraints and a shortage of natural resources such as water; lack of adequate infrastructure to transport goods; and little or no access to critical services such as healthcare. We feel that it is incumbent upon a business such as ours to contribute to society by helping meet those needs. In fact, we think that goes hand in hand with GE¡¯s, or any company¡¯s, ability to grow, support communities and help sustain economies across the world.

The keys to meeting these challenges are technology and talent.

TECHNOLOGY

GE continues to expand its ecomagination, healthymagination and Industrial Internet portfolios, thereby enabling our customers and communities to be more productive and resilient.

Ecomagination is based on the idea that efficiency can help customers, transform industries and protect the environment. A great example is the work we are doing with Clean Energy Fuels Corp., America¡¯s largest manufacturer of natural gas for transportation. Using liquefied natural gas, or LNG, truck fleets can cut fuel costs by more than 25 percent compared with diesel and lower their emissions. But we need the infrastructure. We are providing new equipment that will produce LNG for a network of gas stations for trucks along major U.S. highways.

Healthymagination is about providing better health for more people by focusing on improving quality, expanding access and increasing affordability of care. As part of that effort, GE and several partners sponsored a global open innovation challenge to identify and bring to market ideas that advance breast cancer diagnostics. Healthcare professionals and patients want to better understand tumors associated with triple negative breast cancer, a more aggressive type of cancer that is less responsive to standard treatments. By improving early detection and enabling more accurate diagnoses, we can help doctors make the best possible treatment decisions based on a patient¡¯s unique cancer. The innovation challenge resulted in over 500 submissions from 40 countries. Last year, we invested in five of those ideas to advance their technology and accelerate their speed to market.

TALENT

Innovation like this requires talent, and GE¡¯s business is fundamentally about people?our employees, customers, investors, and the communities in which we live and work. As a company, we remain deeply committed to developing people.

It starts with a belief that education systems must align early and always with the changing requirements of the new economy, and our Foundation has had great success in helping local school districts add rigor to their curriculums and get results. It continues with the understanding that employers and educational institutions must collaborate over skills development, as we do with the Get Skills to Work program, which matches U.S. military veterans with advanced manufacturing jobs. It culminates with a focus on creating global leaders, people who can navigate the complexity of our times with clarity, courage and integrity. Developing people is a commitment that doesn¡¯t just make us better; it makes everyone better. It is an integral part of how we view citizenship.

I have always believed that companies must deliver for investors and be a positive force for change. GE is at its best when it is doing both at the same time. It¡¯s what has allowed us to be a sustainable entity for more than 130 years.

We enjoy solving problems, and we know it is good business. We take great pride in working on things that are hard, things that matter. You can see that in the products we make and how we make them, and in the impact our people are making in communities around the world.

Building, powering, moving, curing. It¡¯s what the world needs. And it¡¯s what we do.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- GE 2013

To succeed as a global business, we need to help build the communities where we operate. We know this goes hand in hand with our ability to grow. At GE, we call this sustainability: aligning our business strategy to meet societal needs, while minimizing environmental impact and advancing social development.

Today¡¯s world is volatile and complicated. The world¡¯s population is on pace to reach 9 billion people by 2050. Three-quarters of those individuals will live in cities. And the middle class will soon include an additional 1 billion people from emerging economies. Demand is rising for improved infrastructure; reliable, clean and affordable energy; and high-quality and accessible healthcare. 

This is where GE goes to work. As I outlined in my shareowners letter this year, GE¡¯s strength lies in our ability to look at what the world needs, combine it with our belief in a better way and then drive to invent and build better futures for our customers and communities. At GE, this sustainability approach is embedded in the way we work with employees, customers, suppliers and investors; the technology we create; and the philanthropic partnerships we support. 

GE¡¯s business is fundamentally about people ? great people, operating safely and with the highest standards of integrity and environmental protection, set our Company apart. The technologies we¡¯re developing, particularly through our ecomagination and healthymagination commitments, are solving development challenges in ways that are practical, responsible and tailored to local needs. And fi nally GE¡¯s philanthropy, advocacy and employee volunteers are helping to make progress in communities around the world.

As in previous years, this report covers a wide range of topics, from greenhouse gas emissions and water use to revenues and supply chain audits. The bulk of the report is focused on how GE works to help solve problems for our customers and society through innovation and operational excellence. 

As we work in 2014 and beyond, we are focused on minimizing our footprint while maximizing our impact ? helping to solve some of the world¡¯s toughest challenges in infrastructure, transport, healthcare and energy.

¼±¹è´Ô, Siemens ¸®Æ÷Æ® ¿Â¶óÀÎÀ¸·Î È®ÀÎÇÏ´Ù°¡, 2000³âµµºÎÅÍ Corporate Citizenship Report°¡ ³ª¿ÍÀÖ´Â °ÍÀ» º¸°í¼­ 2000ºÎÅÍ 2002±îÁö ´Ù¿î ¹Þ°í, CEO msgµµ Ã·ºÎÇÕ´Ï´Ù. 
Siemens 2000°ú 2001³âµµ Copy-paste°¡ ¾ÈµÇ¼­ Å¸ÀÌÇÎÇß½À´Ï´Ù. 

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Siemens 2000
Dear Readers, 

This Corporate Citizenship Report, which describes our activities and impact in society, represents a third element in our financial and environmental reporting. In publishing this report, we are underscoring our view that business success and social commitment go hand in hand and ? in the age of globalization ? are closely intertwined. The report, which is appearing worldwide in German and English, also details all the measures and activities with which we support our employees. 

Since its establishment in 1847, Siemens has been interested in and committed to the welfare of its people and of society as a whole. Our company¡¯s founder, Werner von Siemens, set up social insurance funds for his workforce, maintained a dialogue with the scientific and scholarly community and played an active role in governmental committees. The social commitment of the company, its employees and the descendants of its founder now rests upon a broad foundation. Our activities are correspondingly extensive and diverse. 

We see ourselves as a corporate citizen, a member of society in all 190 countries where we do business - that is, in practically every part of the world. In the course of our activities, we encounter a great variety of challenges and expectations regarding business, society and the environment in the United States, for example, the issues and responsibilities are different from those in Germany, in South Africa they are different from those in China, in Russia they are different from those in Brazil, and in Turkey they are different from those in Australia. 

Nonetheless, the concrete projects that we implement at the local level are in line with certain general priorities. These include enhancing the knowledge of our employees and support for students at schools and universities. Our educational efforts encompass our extensive Youth and Knowledge program in Germany and other European countries, the sponsorship of highly talented students in the U.S. and the endowment of fellowships in many countries around the world. Likewise, promoting the arts and culture and providing rapid, unbureaucratic aid to the victims of natural disasters have always been of special importance to us. 

As a special topic, this year¡¯s Corporate Citizenship Report also describes our role as a cofounder of the Remembrance, Responsibility and the Future initiative, the joint program of German business and the German state to assist former forced laborers. This commitment takes its place alongside the company¡¯s other activities since 1945, acknowledging its moral responsibility for its own as well as Germany¡¯s history. 

As a global network of innovation, Siemens is a part of society ? as a successful company, as an active and influential voice in environmental matters and as a neighbor in the global community. In the Annual Report, the emphasis is on business success, company strategies, corporate messages and company image. In the Environmental Report, the focus is on environmental friendly technologies and sustainability. The Corporate Citizenship Report provides details of our social activities and the commitments we are making to a more humane world. All three aspects from the basis of our thoughts and actions. They go together, they are interrelated and they are connected by the technical solutions and the knowledge of our 450,000 employees around the world. This is the basis on which we build when we set out to successfully promote social progress. Our goal is to increase the value of our company in a continuous and sustainable manner. Yet the aim automatically leads to another: we want to help shape social development and assume responsibility in a society whose progress and integrative power bring benefits to all. 

Dr. Heinrich v. Pierer
President and Chief Executive officer

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Siemens 2001

In December 2000, we published our first Corporate Citizenship Report. Reader response was highly favorable. The aim of the Report was to extend our dialogue with all our stakeholders ? our customers, our suppliers, our employees and the general public ? by explaining the steps we are taking in community initiatives around the world. Our Corporate Citizenship Report 2001 is continuing this dialogue in a more expanded form. 

2001 has been a year of extraordinary upheaval in the general conditions underlying business activity. To industry-specific and global economic turmoil has now been added the threat of global terrorism. Of course, we cannot foresee all the difficulties that will confront us in the near future. But one thing is certain. In a time of such wide-ranging challenges, dialogue with society and responsible corporate citizenship are more vital than ever before. 

In the words of our Corporate Principles, ¡°Our knowledge and our solutions help create a better world.¡± And we are convinced that every company ? as an integral part of society ? has a corresponding obligation to contribute to the common good. At Siemens, this perspective and the commitment it entails were already embodied over 150 years ago in the life and work of our company¡¯s founder, Werner von Siemens. 

Today, we are fulfilling our social responsibilities in a variety of ways. We train some 13,000 young people every year and provide all our employees with opportunities for acquiring additional qualifications ? thus helping to ensure their employability both now and in the future. Life-long learning and its prerequisites are integral parts of our training concept. Our extensive activities to support elementary, secondary and university education worldwide are part of the same vision. 

We are equally committed to promoting culture and the fine arts. For decades, Siemens has been a distinguished sponsor of museums, exhibitions and cultural events as well as of individual artists. Our Siemens Arts Program focuses on the development of new art forms. In addition to our contributions to the arts, we also help supply people¡¯s material needs. For example, we provide quick and unbureaucratic assistance in situations where help is urgently required: in natural disasters, in the battle against want, poverty and deprivation and, especially, in improving the lives of disadvantaged children. We also encourage our employees to participate in community projects. For instance, the effective relief efforts is that we organized during the recent cold wave in Mongolia and following last year¡¯s earthquake in India would not have been possible without the assistance of large numbers of Siemens volunteers. In the wake of the terrorist attacks in the U.S. on September 11, 2001, we established a special organization, the Siemens Caring Hands Foundation, to enable the company and its employees to channel assistance to the victims and their families. 

Of course, we feel a special responsibility to ensure the welfare of the people who work for Siemens worldwide. Here we focus on issues like occupational safety and health care. We provide facilities for a variety of sports and leisure activities and assist the families of employees in dealing with day-to-day problems. Employee pensions and asset formation are also important concerns. The international composition of our workforce and the multitude of talents, cultural backgrounds and perspectives possessed by our employees are valuable sources of idea and creativity that we nourish and protect. 

Integrity is the basis of all our actions ? of our dealings with our business partners, our shareholders, the general public and employees. This maxim, also expressed in our Corporate Principles, is embodied in our Business Conduct Guidelines, the rules that govern our economic behavior. In our strategic planning and in our daily business, we aim to meet the same high ethical and legal standards that we expect others to observe in their dealings with us. For this reason, the Business Conduct Guidelines are binding on all Siemens employees worldwide. In addition to honesty and integrity, they mandate among other things, mutual respect, obedience to the law and compliance with anti-trust regulations. 

Corporation citizenship is a key aspect of the concept of sustainability ? a major area of political concern ever since the UN environmental summit in Rio de Janeiro in 1992. By sustainability, we understand the obligation to ensure that present and future generations continue to have access to the same basic prerequisites for productive and meaningful existence. It is also in our interest to safeguard Siemens¡¯ long-term existence as a successful business enterprise. This, in turn, requires a balance between economic, social and environmental goals. Siemens is committed to the principle of sustainability and molds its actions to meet all three criteria for sustainable development. In recognition of our success in this area, the company has been listed on the Dow Jones Sustainability Index for the last two years. 

I hope that our Corporate Citizenship Report will provide you with a better insight into our company. Please don¡¯t hesitate to contact us. Your ideas and suggestions will help us improve. 

Dr. Heinrich v. Pierer
President and CEO of Siemens AG

----------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Supplementary information 
As a global company, Siemens prides itself on combining business success with environmental awareness and social responsibility. 

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Siemens 2002

Dear Reader,

Our first Corporate Responsibility Report marks an important milestone in the history of reporting at Siemens. Building on the previous Environmental and Corporate Citizenship reports, this publication is our first to link these issues to business topics, re- sulting in a comprehensive new report reflecting our understand- ing of corporate responsibility. This encompasses a commitment to business excellence, environmental stewardship, and corporate
citizenship ? core values that shaped the life¡¯s work of our founder, Werner von Siemens, and have been embraced by every subsequent generation in our company.
Today, governments, investors, customers, employees and the general public are devoting increasing attention to issues like cor- porate governance, responsibility and integrity. We are convinced that an open dialogue about our long-term business strategy is more essential than ever for strengthening public trust and build- ing our market leadership. At Siemens, we are committed to the highest ethical standards, and we are working to improve the daily lives  of people around the world.
Siemens¡¯ Corporate Principles and our Business Conduct Guide - lines describe the basic values that govern our actions worldwide. The guidelines, which are binding for all Siemens employees, man- date honesty, integrity, and full compliance with human rights and the law wherever the company operates.
Our ongoing stream of groundbreaking innovations to the ben- efit of society and the environment is the source of our sustainable business success, and we are committed to building on this tradi- tion. The company¡¯s substantial investments in R&D enable it to offer a broad portfolio of technologies that provide both economic value and environmentally benign, resource - conserving, cutting- edge solutions to the customers and communities we serve.

As an infrastructure provider, Siemens plays a major role in scores of countries around the globe. In addition to providing in- novations and solutions, the company contributes to local econo - mies every day by promoting technology transfer and cooperating closely with local partners, customers and suppliers, who benefit from access to our knowledge and experience.
Vocational training and continuing education programs for our people are another pillar of our long-term business strategy. Not only do well-trained and highly qualified employees have better career opportunities; they also  ensure the company¡¯s status as an innovation leader. Working individually or in teams, their ideas
and creativity play  a vital role in improving living conditions and promoting development around the world.
Out of a commitment to good corporate citizenship, we not only strive to promote education and to enable people in less  developed countries to benefit from our technological expertise, we also
help those in need, such as the victims of the floods that struck the Czech Republic, Austria and Germany in the summer of 2002. We are proud that our support of educational initiatives, the arts, cultural events, and numerous employee volunteer programs meet with broad public respect and recognition.
We hope the strategies and examples highlighted in our Corpo - rate Responsibility Report will give you new insight into the many ways Siemens is working not just to safeguard the future of the company, but to improve lives  in the communities in which we are a respected neighbor. We want to go beyond the scope of our An- nual Report to inform the public about our commitment to corpo -
rate responsibility. As part of our effort to engage in open dialogue with all stakeholders, we encourage you to contact us with your comments, suggestions and ideas for improvement.
We are convinced that sustainable business success is not based on solid quarterly or annual profits alone. Sustainable success re - quires more. And this ¡°more¡± ? which Siemens has stood for since its founding ? is the focus of our Corporate Responsibility Report.



Dr. Heinrich v. Pierer,
President and Chief Executive Officer, Siemens  AG

-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------Supplementary Information 

¡±An open  dialogue strengthens public trust  in our company.¡°

¡±Sustainable business success  is not only based on solid quarterly profits, but also on long-term orientation.¡°

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Siemens 2003

Dear reader,

The difficult global economic environment has affected our markets, leading to painful cuts in parts of our company and making a reduction in our headcount necessary. At times like these, questions of corporate responsibility tend to be raised with greater frequency than usual, and the answers we give are viewed more critically.
Even so, there are a number of constants in our corporate culture that are timeless. First, we remain true to our principle of not choosing short-term courses of action that could cost us our future. This is why, in spite of the hardships involved, we are unable to maintain surplus
capacity when all reliable assessments of future market growth indicate no promise of a return to high demand.
Second, future -focused action calls for continuous investment in research and development, in new products and solutions, and in im- proved processes ? one issue that we address in detail in this report. Our company generates more than 70 percent of its sales with products that are less  than five years old.  If we are to continue to be successful
in our markets five years from now and beyond, it is essential that we maintain a high level  of research and development activity. To do less would be irresponsible as it could undermine the basis for our compa- ny¡¯s success and put jobs  at risk.
Third, crucial to our perception of ourselves as a company is our ability to balance business success and benefits for society ? benefits from the contributions made by our technologies and innovations to - ward meeting the world¡¯s challenges; benefits through education, train- ing, knowledge transfer, and partnerships with schools and universities in many of the world¡¯s countries; and benefits through our citizenship activities in the social and cultural spheres.
This is what this report is about. At the end of the day,  it is also  an invitation to you, the reader, to engage in a dialogue with us.

Dr. Heinrich v. Pierer
President and Chief Executive Officer, Siemens AG

----------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Supplementary Information 

It is our principle not to choose short-term courses of action that could cost us our future.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Siemens 2004


Dear shareholders,

Our figures for fiscal 2004 prove we were right:

¡á       New orders climbed eight percent to ¢æ80.8 billion and sales one percent to

¢æ75.2 billion. Adjusted for consolidation and currency effects, orders were up nine percent and sales three percent.
¡á       Net income totaled ¢æ3.4 billion, compared to ¢æ2.4 billion in fiscal 2003.

Excluding a gain on a sale of shares of Infineon and other non-recurring effects, net income increased 23 percent.

Cash flow development, which has been positive in each of the past four years, was again very gratifying. Net cash from operating and investing activities totaled ¢æ3.3 billion. Our managers have learned the art of professional asset management. Strong cash flow is giving us the entrepreneurial leeway we need for targeted strategic moves.

Our Groups can currently be divided into four categories:
¡á       Automation and Drives, Medical Solutions, Power Generation, Osram, Siemens VDO Automotive, Siemens Financial Services and now also Power Transmission and Distribution are in the first category. These Groups have met or exceeded the margin targets agreed upon with the Managing Board, proving that sustainable success can be achieved by utilizing all the tools of our top+ management system.

¡á       The second category comprises Siemens Building Technologies, Industrial Solutions and Services, and Logistics and Assembly Systems. These Groups have not yet met their performance targets. However, they have overcome earlier difficulties and are now on track.
¡á       The Groups in our Information and Communications business area ? the third category ? have weathered the structural crisis that erupted in 2001. They are now working to achieve long-term stability and profitability. Two Groups, IC Networks and IC Mobile, were combined on October 1, 2004 to form the new Communications Group, which offers a complete range of information and communications technologies in the areas of wireless and wireline networks, devices and services.
¡á       Transportation Systems is in the fourth category. After rebounding in the last few years, our railway systems business slipped back into the red in fiscal
2004. This was largely due to flaws in our Combino low-floor trams and the related provisions. However, the problems are now contained and will rapidly be solved.

¡°Go for Profit and Growth¡± to continue in 2005

At the Siemens Business Conference in Berlin at the beginning of October, the Company¡¯s top managers worldwide pledged to ¡°Go for Profit and Growth¡± again in 2005. The Group margin targets set in December 2000 were left unchanged.
To further improve overall earnings, our weak Groups must intensively employ all the levers in our management system in order to approach their mar- gin targets and achieve steady, sustainable progress. In particular, we are focus- ing on solving project-related problems at Transportation Systems and position- ing the new Communications Group and Siemens Business Services for future success. Our strong Groups ? which have shown how to optimize processes, achieve profitable growth through innovation and engender customer loyalty ? cannot rest on their laurels. These Groups, too, will have to further strengthen their market positions.

Our regional units are under a special obligation to grow their businesses. This applies, in particular, to our new regional organization in Germany, into which we funneled our Groups¡¯ domestic sales and service activities at the begin- ning of fiscal 2005. The new organization will leverage its country-wide presence and customer proximity to expand its business.
We are also driving growth initiatives in selected regions ? such as the United States, China, Russia, India, Japan, and Central and Eastern Europe ? and work- ing to generate further gains elsewhere.
In the future, our growth will continue to be external as well as internal. We have made several key acquisitions recently: Alstom¡¯s industrial turbine business and the Danish wind power plant supplier Bonus Energy for the Power Genera- tion Group, DaimlerChrysler¡¯s electronics plant in Huntsville, Alabama for Siemens VDO Automotive, and water treatment specialist USFilter for the Indus- trial Solutions and Services Group. Further moves are planned. For example, we have also made an offer to acquire Austria¡¯s VA Technologie AG.
¡°Profit and Growth¡± ? this is the ultimate goal of the three top+ programs in our Siemens Management System. These programs ? Innovation, Customer

Focus and Global Competitiveness ? comprise eleven initiatives in all. Mandatory for all our Groups, the initiatives focus, for example, on driving trendsetting technologies and cross-Group technology platforms; acquiring and retaining customers through strategies like Siemens One, in which several Groups cooper- ate on large-scale projects; improving project management; optimizing process- es; upgrading asset management; expanding our service business; and, last but not least, restructuring quality management.
In response to the problems at our Transportation Systems Group, quality management has been reorganized throughout the entire Company. In every Group and every Region, we have established quality managers who are author- ized to intervene and halt projects and processes if quality problems arise. In such cases, improvements that would entail high costs after project completion can be defined and implemented at an early stage.

Continuity and change

Klaus Kleinfeld will succeed me as President and CEO at the conclusion of the Annual Shareholders¡¯ Meeting 2005. With this transition in mind, the Siemens Business Conference in October dealt not only with matters of immediate con- cern but also with the fundamental issues confronting our Company. We asked ourselves, for example: Do we have the right setup? Do we have the right focus? What should we leave as it is? What should we alter? All of these issues, most of which are also addressed in our Corporate Principles, involve continuity and change. We have spelled them out in concrete terms as follows:

¡á       The first issue is our business portfolio. Can we be a highly profitable global leader in electronics and electrical engineering with our current setup?
This is a matter for constant review. Power engineering, communications technology and medical solutions have been the three main pillars of our business for decades. Even in difficult times, we have always maintained a broad portfolio within our enormous field of activity. That is continuity.
But we have also proven that we take the need for change seriously. Siemens was, is and always will be a living organism. We withdrew from the electrical components business for very good reasons. For equally good reasons, we entered the automotive electronics business. These are only two of the many major revisions we have made to our business portfolio.
Strengthening weak businesses with acquisitions and cooperative ventures, withdrawing from stagnant markets, investing in high-growth sectors ? these are and will remain key tasks. And nothing is sacred.

¡á       The second issue is innovation. ¡°Innovation is our lifeblood.¡± That has been our credo for generations. Here, too, we are showing continuity.
Our Medical Solutions Group provides a prime example of successful innova- tion. Faced with hard times in the 1990s, the Group capped costs and opti- mized processes. That was certainly necessary. But more importantly, Medical Solutions took steps to ensure that it was more innovative than its global competitors in as many sectors as possible. Business success was the result. All Siemens Groups are required to conduct frequent innovation benchmark studies. This means that they measure their power of innovation against that of their leading competitors and initiate concrete programs to rapidly close any gaps they discover.
We are now in the process of further expanding our global R&D network. New research centers have been opened in China and India. Another is planned for Russia. All facilities in our global R&D network ? including those in Germany ? can leverage their specific strengths. The Groups are also inter- nationalizing their R&D departments. And a strategically positioned patent portfolio is protecting the knowledge we are generating. Our patent initiative has made good progress in the last few years.

¡á       The third issue is customer orientation. In recent years, change in this area has been particularly dramatic, for our customers have undergone major transformations themselves. Some who were previously public-sector compa- nies or governmental authorities have now been privatized and must con- tend with tough competitive environments. We have adapted our corporate culture to accommodate this shift. Our Corporate Principles state: ¡°We strengthen our customers ? to keep them competitive.¡± This means we treat customers as partners, involving them in our own development processes to ensure market-oriented solutions.
Customer orientation is also a primary focus of our Siemens One initiative, which is helping our Groups present one face to the customer in key seg- ments like hospitals, sports venues and hotels as well as in selected sectors of industry. Siemens One complements the Groups¡¯ vertical business structures with an added emphasis on cross-Group cooperation. Our customers expect us to approach them as a single team. This strategy gives us an edge over competitors who operate in only one or a few segments ? a situation we intend to exploit even more rigorously in the future.
Nearly 40 regions are now implementing the Siemens One concept. In addi- tion, a Siemens One Team, which reports directly to our President and CEO, has been set up in our Corporate Development Department. As well as gener- ating its own business, this new team is assisting the Groups and Regional Companies in creating cross-unit structures.

¡á       Customer proximity everywhere in the world ? this key principle of our cor- porate philosophy applies to more than just our sales activities. True global presence  ? our fourth issue ? can be achieved only when all links in the value chain ? R&D, hardware and software development, procurement, production, services and, of course, sales ? are combined within a global network.
Here, too, we see continuity and change. Change, above all, because of the major geopolitical events of recent years. A prime example is the opening of China, which began 20 years ago and has created vast new business opportu- nities for Western companies. Russia is undergoing a similar transformation. And the changes that have taken place in Central, Eastern and Southeastern Europe are just as fundamental. The eastern expansion of the EU has opened up extraordinary business opportunities. As a result, the world map of regional strengths and weaknesses now looks very different than it did only a few years ago ? a development we cannot afford to ignore.
We have shown that these global changes do not necessarily mean a loss of jobs in Germany, a high-cost country. Every job in Germany is important to us. And it is encouraging to see flexible, location-specific employment models now enjoying greater acceptance.

¡á       The next issue ? employee orientation ? has a long tradition at Siemens.

However, its meaning has changed. It now includes advanced training at all levels of the organization. Lifelong learning is just as important on the facto- ry floor as it is in the board room. This has always been true. But now the con- tent of training programs has changed. Employees have to learn new types of jobs and managers have to master new types of tools in order to hone their leadership skills. That¡¯s why we introduced a process several years ago to ori- ent and permanently align our training programs to the changing needs of the marketplace.
The targeted, systematic development of young high-potentials has long been part of Siemens¡¯ employee orientation. Our annual employee and manage- ment reviews provide a solid basis for our efforts in this regard.

In a global enterprise like Siemens, employee orientation naturally has a mul- ticultural character. For our global network to function smoothly, we have to develop an understanding of cultural differences, learn how to combine the strengths of our different cultures and continue to internationalize our glob- al management team. Although we have made good progress in this respect
in the last few years, we still have much to do.

¡á       Our commitment to responsible financial management is unwavering.

Financial solidity ? the sixth issue ? has been the basis of our enduring suc- cess for more than 150 years.
Although there can be no change in the fundamental principles of our con- servative approach, the methods and tools we use are always evolving.
In the second half of the 1990s, we introduced economic value added (EVA) as a performance yardstick to enable us to better manage our businesses. EVA accommodates the interests of our investors without compromising those of our other stakeholders.
Our internal control systems have also changed. Although the recent discus- sion of corporate governance has entailed considerable administrative effort and expense, we now know with greater certainty that the principles agreed upon are being observed throughout our entire company.

¡á       Financial solidity and corporate governance are both related to the last issue

? responsibility. In a narrower sense, responsibility means correct behavior, such as strict compliance with our Business Conduct Guidelines across all our Groups and Regions.
In a broader sense, however, responsibility means taking into account the interests of all our stakeholders: customers, employees and investors. It also means taking into account society as a whole and the environment. The Siemens business portfolio largely comprises activities that directly impact people¡¯s quality of life ? in fields that encompass true ¡°life technologies.¡±
This  explains why our Company and our projects are always in the limelight

? which is just one more reason why it is so important for us to be a good neighbor everywhere we do business.

So much for the fundamental issues confronting us. As I mentioned earlier, Klaus Kleinfeld will be taking over from me at the close of the Annual Sharehold- ers¡¯ Meeting on January 27, 2005. Together with the other members of the Manag- ing Board and the Company¡¯s top management, he will work to maintain conti- nuity and to actively shape the process of change. I would like to wish Mr. Kleinfeld and his colleagues every success ? for the benefit of our customers, our employees and you, the shareholders of Siemens.

Dr. Heinrich v. Pierer
President and Chief Executive Officer
Siemens AG

----------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Supplementary Information 

A year ago, our management team made a commitment to ¡°Go for Profit and Growth.¡± We were convinced that the prospects for increasing sales and earnings in fiscal 2004 were excellent. We even predicted a double-digit increase  in net income.

¡°The Company¡¯s top managers pledged to ¡®Go for Profit and Growth¡¯ again in 2005.¡±

¡°Our growth will continue to be external as well as internal.¡±

¡°Siemens was, is and always will be a living organism.¡±

¡°In our global R&D network, all facilities ? including those in Germany ? can lever- age their specific strengths.¡±

¡°Every job in Germany is important to us. And it is encouraging to see flexible, location- specific employment models now enjoying greater acceptance.¡±

¡°Financial solidity has been the basis of our enduring success for more than 150 years.¡±

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Siemens 2005

Dear Shareholders,

Last January, on my first day as President and CEO of Siemens AG, I sent some 500 personal letters to customers around the world. Over the course of the next 100 days, I personally visited more than 100 of these companies. What I learned from our cus- tomers is extremely encouraging for our Company. They gave me clear advice on what to continue and what to improve. They confirmed that we have one of the largest, most loyal customer bases in the world and that they rely on us to bring them cutting- edge innovations to keep them a step ahead of their competition and the trends that impact their markets. This customer confidence in Siemens will drive our growth in 2006 and well into the future.

This past year demonstrated that we already have strong growth momentum, but we also have some tough challenges to overcome. What were the highlights?

Growth accelerated

New orders climbed to ¢æ84 billion, showing 11 percent growth compared with fiscal

2004. We already exceeded our medium-term goal of growing twice as fast as global GDP. Worldwide sales were up 7 percent to ¢æ75 billion over the previous year. Growth was especially impressive in the most dynamic regions of the world. In Asia-Pacific, for example, orders were up 23 percent. In the Americas, they were up 19 percent.

Portfolio further developed

We divested our loss-making mobile phone business to BenQ, which was the best solution in the interest of customers, employees, and you, our shareholders. We strengthened our portfolio in the field of energy with the acquisitions of VA Techno- logie and Bonus Energy. The VA Technologie acquisition also boosted our portfolio in the industry sector as did our purchases of Flender and Robicon. By acquiring Photoscan, we broadened our security offerings. In the medical field, our complete acquisition of CTI Molecular Imaging contributed to a significant strengthening of our healthcare business. Myrio and Chantry, both folded into our Communications
Group, enlarged our offerings in the fields of home entertainment systems and WLAN solutions for enterprise customers. And with the acquisition of USFilter the year before, we gained a leading position in water and wastewater systems in the U.S., both
of which are now being rolled out into other regional markets by our global sales force.

Earnings on target

Earnings from continuing operations were ¢æ3.1 billion ? equal to last year on a com- parable basis. If we include the effects of our discontinued and loss-making operations in mobile phones, our net income totaled ¢æ2.2 billion.


Majority of Groups on course

Ten of our 12 operating Groups, plus Siemens Financial Services ? reached, exceeded, or were closing in on their respective margin targets. For the two Groups that continue to face significant challenges, SBS and Com, we are taking decisive action to improve their long-term profitability.
Siemens Business Services faces the challenges of overcapacity, competition and cost pressures, especially in product related services. We have set clear goals and measures to put SBS operationally back on track. A new management team is in place. An ambitious cost-cutting program is underway targeting savings of ¢æ1.5 billion in the next two years. And there¡¯s a greater focus on higher-value services.
At our Communications Group, even with the divestiture of mobile phones, there¡¯s still a continuing need to act. While Mobile Networks¡¯ performance remained solid, major steps are still required at Fixed Networks and Enterprise Networks. Com continues to face a number of significant market challenges, including ongoing consolidations among network operators and suppliers as the industry adjusts to
fixed /mobile convergence, technologies such as Voice over Internet Protocol (VoIP), as well as substantial market price erosions. To meet these challenges, here too, we have a new management team in place that is working hard to solidify this Group¡¯s future.

Our gameplan: Fit4More

All Groups are following our action plan, which we call Fit4More, with a target com- pletion date of April 2007. It embraces four main pillars:
¡á         Performance and Portfolio: We are committed to achieving profitable growth by growing our sales at least twice as fast as global GDP and ensuring that every one of our Groups achieves its margin targets. Strengthening our portfolio is an ongoing process that includes continuous adaptations and acquisitions.
¡á         Operational Excellence: We are committed to executing the top+ Siemens

Management System with its sharp focus on innovation, customer focus and global competitiveness, including finding the most strategic fit in today¡¯s ever-changing global value chain.
¡á         People Excellence: We are working to create a uniform high-performance culture Company-wide ? one that motivates our people to excel at everything they do. After meeting with countless employees worldwide, I know our employees are excited about our people excellence programs. We are also increasing our global talent pool, establishing career tracks for specialists and offering a new curriculum for our Siemens Leadership Program.
¡á         Corporate Responsibility: We are committed to being an active and responsible member of every community where we do business worldwide and we¡¯ve set the goal of becoming best-in-class in corporate governance, business practices, sustainability and corporate citizenship.

Megatrends: Driving our customers¡¯ markets

Fit4More is a short-term plan that sets the foundation for our long-term future as a world-class company in every segment and every activity of our business. Our business is based squarely on opportunities in markets derived from the major megatrends
of tomorrow ? namely changing demographics and the growth of cities worldwide. We have tremendous contributions to make in both areas.
Today¡¯s population of more than six billion will swell to eight billion by 2020 and life expectancy will increase in industrialized countries as well as emerging markets. At the same time, according to the United Nations, for the first time in human history, a majority of humanity will be living in cities by 2007, including in some 20 so-called ¡°megacities¡± with more than 10 million inhabitants each. In 1975, there were only four such megacities; by 2015 there will be 22.

Both megatrends, working in tandem, will have a significant impact on the world of tomorrow, particularly in the fields of health, water, power, mobility and security as well as in communications, automation and lighting. These areas comprise the traditional businesses of our portfolio. Siemens is uniquely positioned among infra- structure companies worldwide to provide the products, services and solutions neces- sary to meet these challenges head-on. Here are just a few examples.
In healthcare, where reliable and affordable care will be at a premium as popu- lations grow and age, Siemens is already a world-class healthcare leader making important contributions to keep costs down and quality up for patients and providers. Our digital hospitals and electronic healthcare systems are on the cutting-edge; and we¡¯re the world¡¯s biggest provider of e-health solutions, a business where we generate some ¢æ1 billion in annual sales alone.
Water will be one of of tomorrow¡¯s most critical commodities. Some 1.2 billion people today have no access to potable water, and water consumption will grow world- wide some 40 percent by 2025. The multi-billion annual market for water and waste- water systems globally is huge and Siemens already has a broad spectrum of solutions for the full cycle of water processing ? from preparing fresh water, to distributing it,
to processing wastewater. Our acquisition of USFilter is already helping us ensure mar- ket leadership in this field.
Worldwide demand for power is expected to grow some 70 percent by 2020. About

40 percent of this demand will be in developed nations, 60 percent in the developing world. To meet this voracious demand, an intelligent energy mix ? including fossil
or nuclear fuels and renewable energy sources such as wind, biomass, hydro and geo- thermal ? is needed. In each case, as well as in the reliable transmission of energy without the loss of power, Siemens is already tomorrow¡¯s trendsetter in power gen- eration and transmission.
In many industrialized and developing countries ? particularly in large megacities

? mobility is reaching a point of gridlock. For example, it¡¯s estimated that the German economy alone loses some ¢æ100 billion per year in fuel costs, lost time and additional CO2 emissions due to traffic jams. Each year, Americans spend 3.5 billion hours stuck
in traffic. Siemens has the solutions to help in terms of high-performance rail systems,

intelligent telematics solutions, fleet management, highway e-payment systems and other innovations to improve people¡¯s mobility.
Security ? in traffic as well as buildings ? will continue to grow in importance in urban areas as populations rise, spectators flock to events in mega-stadiums, and air- ports process ever-growing numbers of passengers. Here, too, Siemens is leading the trends. We¡¯re piloting, for example, a cutting-edge biometric passenger recognition system with Lufthansa and have installed an RFID-based system on admissions tickets in Stuttgart, Germany, that speeds up control and prevents misuse.
Siemens¡¯ infrastructure solutions position us extremely well to leverage and profit from the megatrends of tomorrow, and these are only a few examples of our power
of innovation at work. And today, we¡¯re making even stronger inroads now that we¡¯re offering our customers our products, services and solutions from one source through Siemens One. By bundling our capabilities, we can offer more customers more inno- vation than ever before.

Poised to grow

Along the way to meeting our targets for 2007, the profitability measures we imple- mented in 2005 will begin showing positive effects in fiscal 2006, but we still face challenges in our information and communications business that will require further attention. On the growth side, we¡¯re confident that our Groups are strategically well- positioned for the future. We are in businesses that provide us the opportunity to bene- fit from megatrends; cutting-edge innovation will allow us to keep one step ahead of our competitors; and an increasing ability to integrate our cross-Group offerings meets our customers¡¯ needs for advanced and comprehensive solutions.

I am pleased to report that your company continues its proud past and looks for- ward to a successful future.

Dr. Klaus Kleinfeld
President and Chief Executive Officer
Siemens AG

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Siemens 2006

Letter to our Shareholders,

Dear Shareholders,
In fiscal 2006, we made substantial progress toward achieving sustainable profitable growth Company-wide. We based our efforts on the rigorous implementation of our Fit4More program, which comprises the four pillars Performance and Portfolio, Operational Excellence, People Excellence and Corporate Responsibility (?here).?

We¡¯re satisfied with the results we achieved in fiscal 2006. In every quarter, we exceeded our main target: sustainable profitable growth at twice the global GDP rate.?

Year-on-year, new orders surged 15 percent to ¢æ96 billion. Six percent of this growth was organic (excluding portfolio measures and currency effects). Sales climbed 16 percent to ¢æ87 billion, and eight percent of this increase was organic. Despite further restructuring costs due to portfolio adjustments, we increased Group profit from Operations 12 percent to roughly ¢æ5.3 billion. Net income soared 35 percent to ¢æ3.0 billion, and earnings per share rose 35 percent to ¢æ3.40.

Global megatrends are putting wind in our sails.
To drive our businesses, we¡¯re leveraging two global megatrends ? demographic change and increasing urbanization. These megatrends are exerting an ever-greater impact on the world we live in. According to UN projections, the world¡¯s population will have increased by about one-third and the average age will have jumped from 26 to 36 by 2050. More and more people are moving to urban areas in search of better jobs, better education and a better life. The UN predicts that next year more people will be living in cities than rural areas for the first time in human history.

In light of these developments, how can we meet the growing demand for energy without degrading the environment? How can we shape the future of manufacturing so that more and better goods can be produced using fewer natural resources? How can we safeguard and improve the mobility of people and goods? And how can we ensure the availability of high-quality, affordable healthcare while keeping pace with advances in medical technology?

Innovation can make a major contribution to mastering these challenges. And this is precisely where our opportunities lie, since we already hold leading positions worldwide in many of the technologies required. Our portfolio policies aim to strengthen and expand these positions.
A two-pronged strategy is positioning Siemens for the future.
The first Fit4More pillar ? Performance and Portfolio ? comprises two main elements: targeted acquisitions and the strategic reorientation of specific businesses, in particular our Information and Communications activities. In fiscal 2006, we implemented a number of key portfolio-enhancing measures in both areas. On the one hand, we made a series of acquisitions that will expand our positions in the long-term growth markets of power, environmental technology, medical solutions, automation systems and public and industrial infrastructures. On the other hand, we introduced numerous measures to get Siemens Business Services (SBS) back on track. These measures included a strategic reorientation, which was completed at the end of fiscal 2006 (SBS,?Supervisory Board,?Management's discussion and analysis,?Outlook).

Two portfolio adjustments were of particular importance: a broadening of the focus of our Medical Solutions Group (Med) and the decision to fold the carrier business of our Communications Group (Com) into a joint venture with Nokia.
* Med¡¯s acquisitions of U.S.-based Diagnostic Products Corporation and Bayer Diagnostics are moving us into the new, highly attractive growth segment of in-vitro diagnostics. Once both acquisitions have been finalized, we¡¯ll occupy an excellent starting position on a par with the No. 2 global provider. These two acquisitions will also make Med the world¡¯s first supplier to deliver products, systems and services across the entire healthcare continuum, from prevention and diagnosis to treatment and follow-up care. Since IT plays a key role in integrating clinical workflows, increasing efficiency and lowering costs, Med¡¯s leading global position in healthcare IT will give it an additional competitive edge.

* The decision to put our telecommunications carrier business into a 50-50?joint venture?with Nokia was not easy. After weighing all the options, however, this seemed to be the best way to remain a leading supplier of telecommunications infrastructure given the dramatic changes now taking place in the world market. Size is a critical factor for manufacturers and providers of telecommunications solutions and services. This new joint venture will give us the critical mass and financial clout we need in order to compete successfully. We¡¯re convinced that Nokia Siemens Networks has excellent prospects of becoming a global leader in its market. Steps to complete the integration and start operation in the second quarter of fiscal 2007 are underway.

In addition to these major portfolio moves, we made a number of smaller acquisitions that will further strengthen our position in the industrial automation and power markets. Our restructuring measures ? including all acquisitions, divestments and joint ventures ? affected some 30 percent of our businesses in fiscal 2006. We¡¯re pleased to have successfully completed this formidable task.

We¡¯re deeply concerned about developments at our former mobile phone business, now part of the Taiwanese company BenQ. In September 2006, the company filed for bankruptcy for its mobile phone business in Germany and other countries, causing a public outcry in Germany in particular. The filing took us by surprise, above all, because we were convinced we had chosen a good partner for our mobile phone business and because we had purposely strengthened BenQ¡¯s position by providing financing and by transferring patent and brand rights. We¡¯ve now launched a variety of measures to facilitate job placement for our former employees.
Our Groups are achieving profitable growth.
All our Groups ? with the exception of Siemens Business Services ? reported strong growth in fiscal 2006, with six operating Groups achieving a double-digit percentage increase in new orders. In many of our businesses, we¡¯re winning market share from our competitors. Automation and Drives (A&D), Medical Solutions (Med), Siemens VDO Automotive (SV), Power Transmission and Distribution (PTD) and OSRAM reached their target margins every quarter, while Industrial Solutions and Services (I&S), Siemens Building Technologies (SBT), Transportation Systems (TS) and Siemens Business Services (SBS) are closing in on their profitability goals. We¡¯re confident that all our Groups will reach their target margins by the second quarter of 2007. In the months ahead, we¡¯ll focus on continuing to improve our Groups¡¯ profitability and maintaining these margin levels in the long term.

The second pillar of the Fit4More program ? Operational Excellence ? comprises the proven tools of the Siemens Management System (SMS), including our Company-wide programs Innovation, Customer Focus and Global Competitiveness and our?top+?initiative, with which we¡¯ve been continuously optimizing our business processes for ten years now.

Half of our sales growth is organic, and this achievement is a testimony to our power of innovation. To further boost our technological edge, we invested?
¢æ5.7 billion in research and development in fiscal 2006 (?here). And this investment is paying off. In fiscal 2006, our researchers submitted more than 10,000 invention reports, roughly 17 percent more than in fiscal 2005. We filed patent applications for over 6,000 of these inventions, about eight percent more than in the previous year. Our portfolio now comprises more than 62,000 patents.

Now I¡¯d like to give you just a few examples of how our innovative strength is driving success at our Groups:
* Our SOMATOM Definition computed tomography (CT) scanner is a major breakthrough in medical diagnostics. Using two X-ray tubes and two detectors, this innovative system reduces radiation exposure by up to 50 percent and energy consumption by roughly 30 percent. SOMATOM Definition scans the human heart in just six seconds and the entire body in only 20 seconds. With an imaging rate that is faster than the beating heart, it¡¯s an ideal tool for producing cardiac images of patients with irregular or very rapid heartbeats. And its high image resolution of up to 0.4 millimeters helps physicians better identify early indicators of heart disease. We sold 150 SOMATOM Definition scanners and installed more than 50 of the systems in fiscal 2006.

* SIPROCESS from A&D is a modular, automated micro process system for synthesizing chemical substances. This cutting-edge system significantly reduces product development costs and shortens time-to-market. Users report that SIPROCESS increases lab productivity up to fivefold.

* In April 2006, a 290-km submarine cable began transmitting power between Australia and Tasmania. During the rainy season, electricity generated by eco-friendly hydropower plants on the island flows to the mainland. During the dry season, power from coal-fired facilities in Australia is transmitted to Tasmania. High-voltage direct-current transmission technology from PTD is helping minimize energy loss along the entire route. Thanks to Siemens, both the continent and its island are benefiting from lower emissions and reliable power supplies.

These are only three examples of the technological prowess that has been driving our Company's success for 160 years and is still creating sustainable value for our customers every day.
We¡¯re bundling our products to create sector-specific solutions.
In fiscal 2006, we set up a number of cross-Group Sector Development Boards to offer solutions even better tailored to our customers¡¯ specific requirements. At BMW¡¯s Leipzig facility, for example, we supplied automation and manufacturing solutions for the body shop, paint shop and final assembly system. We also provided the plant¡¯s power supply, communications and IT systems, its building infrastructure and all related services.
Employee know-how and teamwork are key competitive advantages.
Our technological and entrepreneurial success is based on the superb collaboration of our excellent employees worldwide. Given the breakneck speed at which markets are changing, the expertise and teamwork of our people are a source of long-term competitive advantages. That¡¯s why People Excellence ? our third Fit4More pillar ? is so important to us. The aim of our activities in this area is to foster a high-performance culture across the entire Company. Successful People Excellence measures include our newly restructured Siemens Leadership Excellence (SLE) program, which is providing our managers with the knowledge they¡¯ll need to meet the challenges of the future. In SLE courses, top Siemens executives share their experiences and practical know-how with the next generation of Company leaders. Our ability to recognize and nurture these top talents early on is also a decisive factor in our success.

Unparalleled technology know-how and outstanding innovations are the lifeblood of our Company. That¡¯s why we want to be an attractive employer for top scientists and engineers worldwide. To achieve this goal, we¡¯ve introduced a special career track for technology experts ? separate from that for our managerial employees ? with four main stages, from senior-level to chief engineer.

Our values are the foundation of our actions.
Corporate Responsibility ? our fourth Fit4More pillar ? is a reflection of our Company¡¯s identity and the values for which we stand. These values are expressed in our corporate governance system, the rules set out in our Business Conduct Guidelines, the charitable activities of our Corporate Citizenship program and our commitment to sustainable and eco-friendly development.

We introduced our Business Conduct Guidelines in 2001, when the Company was listed on the New York Stock Exchange. These guidelines ? which contain rules regarding compliance with the law, the handling of conflicts of interest, the protection of company assets and the prohibition of insider trading ? are binding for all Company employees and the members of our Managing Board. The members of our Supervisory Board also comply with the Guidelines where applicable. Our Business Conduct Guidelines are also part of every employment contract. A Company Compliance Officer regularly reports to the Audit Committee of the Supervisory Board and the Corporate Executive Committee.

Unfortunately, it has now become clear that our compliance measures are not yet sufficient. Several former and current Company employees are under investigation regarding allegations of embezzlement, bribery and tax evasion. Siemens is doing everything in its power to facilitate the full and speedy clarification of this matter and has taken appropriate and immediate countermeasures. In this connection, we¡¯ve also engaged independent experts to detect any concrete violations, identify any flaws in Siemens¡¯ regulatory system, structures or processes and eliminate these shortcomings entirely and without exception (Management's discussion and analysis).

Our activities in the areas of sustainability and environmental protection were honored once again this year. We¡¯re proud to have been listed on the Dow Jones Sustainability Index for the seventh year in a row.

We aim to be a good neighbor in all the countries where we do business. With our global presence, we can marshal local resources everywhere in the world to provide fast and effective assistance in emergencies and natural disasters. For example, Siemens Caring Hands, our charitable program, contributed more than ¢æ1.5 million in monetary and non-monetary donations for the victims of the earthquake in Pakistan on October 8, 2005. Following the Indonesian earthquake of May 2006, we provided aid primarily in the form of medical equipment.

Our network of university partnerships now encompasses more than 600 institutions of higher education in 70 countries. Partners include prestigious institutions like Massachusetts Institute of Technology, the University of California at Berkeley, Oxford University, ETH Zurich, Tokyo University, Tsinghua University in Beijing, Tongji University in Shanghai and leading universities throughout Germany.

In fiscal 2006, our Fit4More program paved the way for continued profitable growth at twice the rate of the global economy. To reach this goal, we¡¯ve expanded and restructured many of our businesses. Our achievements in fiscal 2006 ? reflected in our bottom line ? are providing an excellent springboard for further success in fiscal 2007.



Dr. Klaus Kleinfeld
President and Chief Executive Officer,
Siemens AG

----------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Supplementary Information 

¡°In fiscal 2008, we took major steps to further optimize profit and growth¡±

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Siemens 2007

Dear Shareholders,

In fiscal 2007, the Supervisory Board performed the duties assigned to it by law, the Siemens Articles of Association and the Bylaws for the Supervisory Board. We regularly advised the Managing Board on the management of the Company and monitored the Managing Board¡¯s activities. We were directly involved in all major decisions regarding the Company. In written and oral reports, the Managing Board regularly provided us with timely and comprehensive information on Company planning and business operations as well as on the strategic development and current state of the Company. Actual deviations from business plans were explained to us in detail. Together with the Managing Board, we determined the Company¡¯s strategic orientation. On the basis of reports submitted by the Managing Board, we discussed in detail all business transactions of major significance to the Company. The proposals made by the Managing Board were approved after detailed examination and discussion.
We held a total of six regular and two extraordinary meetings. Where necessary, we recorded our decisions in writing.

During our respective terms of office, both Professor Dr. Heinrich v. Pierer ? who was Chairman until April 25, 2007 ? and I were in regular contact with the Managing Board between Supervisory Board meetings. We were kept up-to-date on the Company¡¯s current business situation and key business transactions. At separate strategy meetings, the Chairman of the Supervisory Board discussed with the Managing Board the perspectives and future orientation of the Company¡¯s individual businesses.

Intensive work in the Supervisory Board committees
To enhance the efficiency of its work, the Supervisory Board has set up a total of six committees, which prepare the resolutions of the Supervisory Board as well as the issues to be dealt with at the Board¡¯s plenary meetings. Where legally permissible, the decision-making powers of the Supervisory Board are delegated to these committees. The composition of the individual Supervisory Board committees and the number of committee meetings and decisions are shown on page 319.

The Chairman¡¯s Committee met eight times in fiscal 2007. Between meetings, the Chairman of the Supervisory Board also discussed topics of particular importance to the Company with the members of the Chairman¡¯s Committee. In fiscal 2007, these discussions were concerned primarily with the Managing Board¡¯s proposal to focus the Company¡¯s business operations on three Sectors and with the future structure of Siemens¡¯ matrix organization. The Chairman¡¯s Committee also dealt with
the implementation  of the Company¡¯s corporate governance principles and with various personnel topics ? in particular, with the appointment of members of the Managing Board, with matters relating to Managing Board contracts and with Managing Board remuneration.

In fiscal 2007, the Mediation Committee again had no occasion to meet. The Ownership Rights Committee voted on six resolutions using a notational, or written, voting process. The chairman of the committee notified the Supervisory Board of the outcome at subsequent meetings. In fiscal
2007, a Nominating Committee was established to prepare for the election of the Supervisory
Board¡¯s shareholder representatives by the Annual Shareholders¡¯ Meeting of Siemens AG on January
24, 2008. The committee took up its duties after the end of fiscal 2007.

The Audit Committee met seven times. Together with the independent auditors, the President and Chief Executive Officer, and the Chief Financial Officer, the Audit Committee discussed the Annual Financial Statements and management¡¯s discussion and analysis (MD&A) of Siemens AG and the Consolidated Financial Statements and consolidated MD&A of Siemens worldwide, the proposal for the appropriation of net income and the Annual Report on Form 20-F for the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). The effects of compliance-related matters on the financial statements were also discussed. In addition, the committee gave in-depth consideration to the Company¡¯s quarterly reports, the Semiannual Report, the appointment of the independent auditors, oversight of the auditors¡¯ independence and qualification, and their fee. The Audit Committee dealt inten- sively with the Company¡¯s risk management system and with the authorization and findings of the internal financial audit and the reports concerning legal and regulatory risks. The Audit Committee also concentrated on Company compliance with the provisions of Section 404 of the Sarbanes- Oxley Act (SOA) and measures for eliminating the weak points in the internal control system (Remediation Plan).

At its meeting on December 11, 2006, the Audit Committee ? in connection with the legal proceed- ings relating to allegations of embezzlement, bribery and tax evasion on the part of former and current employees ? retained the law firm Debevoise & Plimpton LLP to:
? clarify the circumstances relating to allegations of criminal activity at the Communications Group
(Com), which has since been dissolved
? analyze the implications of current findings for the efficiency of the Company¡¯s compliance system and its internal control system and
? investigate whether similar situations have arisen at any other Siemens Group.

Debevoise & Plimpton LLP has also commissioned the independent auditors Deloitte Touche Tohmatsu to support it in the examination of Siemens¡¯ control systems by providing forensic accounting experts. At the suggestion of the Corporate Executive Committee, the Audit Committee appointed the inter- nationally recognized expert Michael J. Hershman as Siemens¡¯ compliance advisor.

On April 25, 2007, the Supervisory Board decided to transfer responsibility for compliance-related matters from the Audit Committee to the newly created Compliance Committee. For the remainder of the current internal investigations, the Compliance Committee will deal with the following  matters on behalf of the Supervisory Board: overseeing the ongoing compliance-related investigations, process- ing reports by the law firm Debevoise & Plimpton LLP on its independent investigation and review of Siemens¡¯ internal compliance and control systems, and monitoring  compliance with legal and regula- tory requirements and Company guidelines.

The committee chairmen reported on the work of their committees on a regular basis at the plenary meetings.

Main topics at the plenary meetings
Regular topics of discussion at the Supervisory Board¡¯s plenary meetings were revenue, income and employment development at Siemens AG, at the Groups and at Siemens worldwide as well as the Company¡¯s main investment and divestment projects. The Managing Board reported regularly and comprehensively on Company planning and the strategic development, business operations and current state of the Company. Compliance-related measures and the future structure of business operations at Siemens AG were discussed at several meetings. Decisions were also made regarding the composition of the Managing Board.

At our meeting on November 8, 2006, we received a report on business development in fiscal 2006 and approved the dividend proposal for 2007. At our meeting on December 11, 2006, we primarily discussed the financial statements and MD&A of Siemens AG and Siemens worldwide as of September
30, 2006 as well as Company planning for fiscal 2007. In light of recent developments, we also dis- cussed in detail the background and status of the investigations relating to allegations of embezzle- ment, bribery and tax evasion on the part of former and current employees. In this connection, the Supervisory Board expressed its unconditional support for the measures introduced by the Audit Com- mittee. At an executive session held during the December meeting, the efficiency of the Supervisory Board¡¯s work was evaluated by its members.

At our meeting on January 24, 2007 ? one day before the Annual Shareholders¡¯ Meeting ? the Manag- ing Board reported on the current state of the Company and on the status of the Company¡¯s compli- ance and control systems. In addition, the Supervisory Board was informed for the first time of the Managing Board¡¯s intention to sell stakes in the automotive supplier Siemens VDO Automotive through a public listing. The Supervisory Board took note of this intention. The Supervisory Board also agreed to the acquisition of UGS Corp. of Plano, Texas (U.S.). UGS is a world-leading supplier of product lifecycle management (PLM) software and services. PLM is an IT business platform that supports business inno- vation and growth through digital product design, manufacture, distribution, servicing and disposal.

At our meeting on January 25, 2007, we reviewed the points discussed at the just-concluded Annual
Shareholders¡¯ Meeting.

At the beginning of the Supervisory Board meeting on April 25, 2007, Professor Dr. Heinrich v. Pierer resigned as Chairman of the Supervisory Board of Siemens AG. The Supervisory Board then elected me, Dr. Gerhard Cromme, Chairman for the remainder of the current Supervisory Board¡¯s term of office, which expires at the Annual Shareholders¡¯ Meeting of Siemens AG on January 24, 2008. At the same meeting, Siemens President and CEO Dr. Klaus Kleinfeld informed the Supervisory Board that he would no longer be available for a renewal of his contract. Also discussed at this meeting were the state
of the Company, the status of the compliance-related investigations and the topic of D&O insurance. In addition, the Managing Board reported in detail on the new Company program Fit42010.

At an extraordinary meeting on May 20, 2007, which convened without  the Managing Board in attendance, the Supervisory Board approved a proposal of the Chairman¡¯s Committee to appoint Peter L?scher a full member of the Managing Board and successor to Dr. Klaus Kleinfeld as President and CEO of Siemens AG, effective July 1, 2007. The Supervisory Board also approved a proposal of the Chairman¡¯s Committee to appoint Dr. Heinrich Hiesinger, Group President of Siemens Building Technologies (SBT), to the Managing Board of Siemens AG. Dr. Hiesinger was appointed a full member of the Managing Board, effective June 1, 2007. The Supervisory Board also approved the Managing Board¡¯s decision to elect Dr. Hiesinger to the Corporate Executive Committee.

Our meeting on July 25, 2007 dealt with the status of compliance-related measures, a report on the compliance environment, the legal situation and the Company¡¯s business and financial position. The Supervisory Board also approved the Managing Board¡¯s proposal to sell Siemens VDO Automotive AG to Continental AG and the planned acquisition of Dade Behring Inc. of Deerfield, Illinois (U.S.). The purchase of this U.S. healthcare diagnostics company has brought Siemens a step closer to becoming the first integrated diagnostics company in the world.

The Supervisory Board decided at its meeting on September 19, 2007 to appoint Peter Y. Solmssen
a full member of the Managing Board and approved his election to the Corporate Executive Commit- tee. Mr. Solmssen assumed the new Managing Board position for legal and compliance matters, which was established by the Chairman¡¯s Committee of the Supervisory Board as of October 1, 2007. Previously Executive Vice President and General Counsel of GE Healthcare in Chalfont St. Giles (UK), Mr. Solmssen is a highly qualified and internationally recognized expert in legal and compliance- related matters. At the same meeting, the Managing Board reported on the integration of major acquisitions at the Automation and Drives Group and the Medical Solutions Group. We also received an overview of the current status of the Company¡¯s pension system and of the anticipated further development of its pension fund assets.

Compliance with corporate governance  standards
The Supervisory Board continuously monitored the further development of the Company¡¯s corporate governance standards. Information on corporate governance at the Company and a detailed report on the level and structure of the remuneration paid to the members of the Supervisory and Managing Boards is provided on pages 92 ff. and 103 ff. of this Annual Report. At their meetings on November
23 and 28, the Managing and Supervisory Boards issued an unconditional Declaration of Conformity pursuant to ¡× 161 of the German Stock Corporation Act (Aktiengesetz) and made it available to share- holders on the Company¡¯s website. Siemens AG complies with all the recommendations of the current version of the German Corporate Governance Code and will continue to comply with these recom- mendations  in the future.

Detailed discussion of the financial statements
Our independent auditors, KPMG Deutsche Treuhand-Gesellschaft AG Wirtschaftspr?fungsgesellschaft (KPMG), Berlin, audited the Annual Financial Statements of Siemens AG and the related MD&A as well as the Consolidated Financial Statements and consolidated MD&A for the year ended September 30,
2007, in accordance with the requirements of the German Commercial Code (HGB) and approved them without  qualification. The Consolidated Financial Statements and the consolidated MD&A were prepared in accordance with ¡× 315a of the HGB using the international accounting standards IFRS,
as required in the European Union. KPMG¡¯s audit was conducted in accordance with generally accepted German standards for the audit of financial statements promulgated by the Institut der Wirtschaftspr?fer in Deutschland e.V. (IDW) and the International Standards on Auditing (ISA).

The above-mentioned documents as well as the Managing Board¡¯s proposal for the appropriation of net income were submitted to us by the Managing Board in a timely manner. The Audit Committee discussed these documents in detail on November 27, 2007. The KPMG audit reports were presented to all members of the Supervisory Board, and we reviewed them comprehensively at our meeting on November 28, 2007, in the presence of the independent auditors, who reported on the main findings of their audit. At this meeting, the Managing Board explained the Annual and Consolidated Financial Statements as well as the Company¡¯s risk management system. It also provided a report on the scope, focal points and costs of the audit.

As a result of the definitive findings of the examination by the Audit Committee and the full Super- visory Board, we raised no objections. In view of our approval, the financial statements are accepted as submitted. We endorse the Managing Board¡¯s proposal that the net income available for distribu- tion be used to pay out a dividend of ¢æ1.60 per share entitled to a dividend. In addition, we approve the proposal that the amount attributable to treasury stock be carried forward.

Changes in the composition of the Supervisory and Managing Boards
At the conclusion of the Annual Shareholders¡¯ Meeting on January 25, 2007, Wolfgang M?ller left the Supervisory Board. Dieter Scheitor was appointed by court resolution to replace him. Effective April 1, 2007, Bettina Haller, previously a substitute member of the Supervisory Board, succeeded Georg Nassauer as a member of the Supervisory Board. The Supervisory Board would like to thank Mr. M?ller and Mr. Nassauer for their constructive and informed contributions and many years of loyal support.

Professor Dr. Heinrich v. Pierer resigned as a member and Chairman of the Supervisory Board at the beginning of the Supervisory Board meeting on April 25, 2007. The Board elected me, Dr. Gerhard Cromme, Chairman for the remainder of the current Supervisory Board¡¯s term of office, which expires at the Annual Shareholders¡¯ Meeting of Siemens AG on January 24, 2008. Professor
Dr. Michael Mirow, who had been elected a substitute member of the Board, succeeded Professor Dr. Heinrich v. Pierer as a member of the Supervisory Board. The Supervisory Board of Siemens AG is deeply indebted to Professor Dr. Heinrich v. Pierer for his many years of service as President and CEO of Siemens AG and for his work as Chairman of the Supervisory Board.

Effective June 1, 2007, the Supervisory Board appointed Dr. Heinrich Hiesinger a full member of the Managing Board and approved his election to the Corporate Executive Committee. Dr. Klaus Kleinfeld resigned as a member of the Managing Board and President and CEO of Siemens AG, effec- tive June 30, 2007. We would like to thank Dr. Kleinfeld for his work. Peter L?scher was appointed
a full member of the Managing Board and President and CEO of Siemens AG, effective July 1, 2007. The term of office of Professor Johannes Feldmayer expired on September 30, 2007, and was not extended. Professor Feldmayer had held a variety of positions at the Company since 1979 and had served as a member of the Managing Board and Corporate Executive Committee since May 2003. We would like to thank Professor Feldmayer for his many years of successful work. His duties have
been assumed by Dr. Heinrich Hiesinger. Effective October 1, 2007, the Supervisory Board appointed Peter Y. Solmssen a full member of the Managing Board and approved his election to the Corporate Executive Committee. As General Counsel to the Company, Mr. Solmssen also occupies the newly created Managing Board position for legal and compliance matters.

The Supervisory Board would like to thank the members of the Managing Board as well as the employees and employee representatives of all Siemens companies for their work. Together, they made fiscal 2007 another very successful year for Siemens¡¯ business.

For the Supervisory Board


Dr. Gerhard Cromme
Chairman
Berlin and Munich, November 28, 2007

----------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Supplementary Information 
In addition to very successful business operations, fiscal 2007 was characterized by major changes and extraordinary events at the Company. These developments also affected the composition and work of the Supervisory Board and the topics with which it dealt.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Siemens 2008

Ladies and gentlemen,

Sustainability as we understand it is closely linked to our values. In all its complexity, it is our contribution to a more equitable world economy and the provision of energy-efficient, durable products and solutions for our customers. It is also  the expression of a responsible employee culture and a sign of uncompromising compliance with laws  and regulations.

Against the backdrop of the current economic and financial crisis and the problems posed by climate change, even more is expected of our company¡¯s product portfolio, production processes and purchasing policies. Siemens is well prepared for the challenges the world is facing. We identified long-term trends early on and realigned our company accordingly. This has enabled us to make the changes we need in order to operate even faster and more flexibly in attractive markets and generate strong and profitable growth.

Profitable and long-term growth is our goal, and responsible action the means to achieve it. Our  responsibility in this regard has many sides. For example, it includes environmental protection and product stewardship as well as responsible employee management and a diversity-oriented employee culture, occupational health and safety, the requirement that all our suppliers comply with our own  high standards, and our corporate citi- zenship activities.

Our commitment to the United Nations Global Compact
Formulated in 2000, the United Nations¡¯ eight Millennium Development Goals  set priorities. Based  on the vision of a sustainable and more equitable world economy, they aim  to noticeably improve living conditions worldwide by 2015. Poverty reduction, peacekeeping and environmental protection have been defined as the international community¡¯s top priorities. We are  aware that the goals cannot be achieved by governments and international organizations alone. Active support is also  required from the business world. With their innova- tion and investment capabilities, businesses bear a large share of the responsibility for sustainable develop- ment worldwide.

This applies particularly to our company, which supplies key future-oriented technologies and has consider- able influence because of its size  and global presence. As a result, we take our responsibility to sustainability seriously. We have made this responsibility a central pillar of our corporate strategy. It is implemented in our Fit42010 program and has a clear goal: to be the global leader in transparency and compliance. This is what we aspire to and this is the guiding principle of this report.

Since 2003,  our commitment has also  been reflected in our membership in the United Nations Global Com- pact. Active in around 190 countries, we have adopted the Global Compact¡¯s ten principles and will continue to lend them our full support. Our  commitment is also  reflected in our Business Conduct Guidelines, which are  designed to establish ethically irreproachable business practices as the prerequisite for sustainable company success and anchor the behavior of all our managers and employees in ethical norms. This Report describes our progress toward implementing the Global Compact¡¯s principles, and future reports will adopt this approach as well.

Opportunities from sustainable business
In the future, we intend to focus even more intensely on the opportunities provided by sustainable business. That¡¯s one reason why Siemens ? an integrated technology company ? is making above-average investments in research and development with the aim  of achieving new  growth targets. One  prime example here is our Environmental Portfolio. The company is already a world leader with its offerings. This portfolio showcases how Siemens, with its expertise in green solutions, is fulfilling its commitment to sustainable development. We¡¯re pleased to have engaged Barbara Kux for this vital  topic. She is responsible for Supply Chain Manage- ment on the Managing Board and, in her role as Chief  Sustainability Officer, is in charge of marketing for the cross-Sector Environmental Portfolio. For us,  sustainability and supply chain management are  closely related. Only  if our processes along the entire value chain are  responsible and profitable can we operate on a long- term and sustainable basis.

Our  newly created Sustainability Board, staffed by high-ranking representatives from across the company, will promote an understanding of sustainability and its practical application. This Board will more effectively leverage the opportunities provided by sustainable business at all levels of the company. For these reasons, we are  calling this annual publication the Sustainability Report.

Our achievements to date
We made major progress last year in the areas of compliance, supplier responsibility and occupational health and safety. We established systems, implemented them globally and continued to optimize them. One  such system was a comprehensive compliance program, which includes intensive training measures. We also  con- tinued to rigorously clarify past compliance violations. Our  full cooperation with the investigating authori- ties, our uncompromising response to all cases of misconduct and our comprehensive Compliance Program were one of the reasons that the legal proceedings against Siemens in Germany and the U.S. were simultane- ously terminated.

Our  responsibility is not limited to our company; it also  extends beyond the factory gates. Therefore, respon- sibility and sustainability are  also  criteria for the selection of suitable suppliers. Following the worldwide rollout in fiscal  2008  of the Code  of Conduct for Siemens Suppliers, 84 suppliers were asked for the first time to complete a corporate responsibility self-assessment. The object was to find out more about our suppliers¡¯ activities and the management systems they use to ensure sustainability. This is the only  way to identify pos- sible risks in the supply chain at an early stage. Further information about the results of the assessment is available in this Report.

In fiscal  2008, we also  introduced an international occupational health and safety reporting system in order to centrally track and evaluate, on a monthly basis, key performance indicators for all our locations and con- struction sites as well as for our contractors.

Integrity, CO2 reduction and diversity
The basis for all our activities is the conviction that integrity is the prerequisite for long-term, sustainable company success. A common understanding of integrity can only  be reached by discussing the values and expectations of all parties concerned. For this reason, last fiscal  year, Siemens held intensive discussions
on integrity with top management and internal and external groups and defined the factors that will deter- mine our future success.

The Siemens Environmental Portfolio is only  one part ? although a very  important one ? of our climate pro- tection commitment, which we intend to apply to our entire value chain. This commitment includes an inte- grated concept for CO2 reduction that involves our suppliers, our customers and our own production processes. Rigorous supply chain management will help us achieve this goal. Our  production sites worldwide aim  to

reduce CO2 emissions by 20 percent by 2011 ? compared to the level  in 2006,  normalized for revenue growth. Here, we can also  put to use the energy-efficient products and solutions that our research departments have developed for our customers.

Only  if we make diversity a key component of our corporate culture will we succeed in recruiting the best employees for the development of future-oriented products and solutions and in widening our innovation basis through the inclusion of multifaceted capabilities, approaches and cultural backgrounds.

Identifying our top talents early on,  providing them with attractive development possibilities at all levels
of the company and entrusting them with key functions within the company ? this is also  a prerequisite for sustainable company success.

Transparency, openness and trust
Looking back  over the activities of the past fiscal  year, we can be proud of what we have achieved. But we have still  not reached our goals. Our  plans and objectives must also  be reflected in improvements in performance. By presenting our sustainability activities in accordance with management objectives, key figures and goals, we want to make our performance clear and measurable internally and externally and enable all our readers to see which targets have been reached, which have even been exceeded and which are  still  to be achieved. This open reporting is an important means of reaching the transparency goal defined as part of our Fit42010 program. We are  convinced that open communications and fair dealings with our stakeholders ? employees, customers, non-governmental organizations, associations, scientists and political leaders ? are  the main prerequisite for integrity. Open dialogue is also  an important basis for the development of products and solu-
tions that are  not only  useful for society but also  establish long-term trust in our company. This is particularly important at a time of economic and financial crisis.

Today, as a result of our company¡¯s rigorous reorientation over the past two years, we are  now  better equipped to tackle the challenges facing us.  This does not mean thinking and acting on a short-term basis. On the con- trary, we will remain true to our strategy of long-term decision-making and our focus on energy-efficient inno- vations and solutions. We are  confident that, in this way, we will be able to profit from impending stimulus programs in important markets ? as a world-leader for green products and solutions and a company that acts responsibly and in accordance with the principle of sustainability.

Accompany us on our journey into the future ? with your ideas and your criticism. Munich, June 2009

Peter L?scher 
President and CEO Siemens AG

----------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Supplementary Information
 
Responsible, excellent and innovative ? this is how we see ourselves, and this is how we want to be seen. These values are the governing principles that guide all our actions, and sustainable, profitable growth is the basis. Particularly at a time of economic crisis, both are essential ? because we want to continue to be a trustworthy and reliable partner for our customers, shareholders and the soci¡© eties in which we work and live.

¡°In the future, we intend to focus  even  more  intensely on the oppor-  tunities provided by sustainable business.¡±

¡° We fully support the principles of the Global Compact.¡±

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Siemens 2009

Ladies and gentlemen,

As our  history shows, our  understanding of sustainability is closely  linked  to our  company values ? responsible, excellent, innovative. From the very first, Werner  von Siemens insisted that his company fulfill its responsibilities to its employees, to society and  to nature. To achieve excellence, to capture leading positions in the markets of tomorrow, to develop innovative technologies that help ensure the future viability of modern civilization ? this has  always  been our vision and our challenge.

Sustainable development creates business opportunities
We¡¯re rigorously leveraging the business opportunities created by sustainable development. Our Envi- ronmental Portfolio  clearly  demonstrates what we¡¯ve achieved so far: ¢æ 23 billion  in revenue in fiscal
2009 and 210 million  tons in CO2 reductions for our customers ? these figures speak for themselves.

That sustainability is our top priority  is also  reflected in our company organization: our Sustainability Board, headed by Chief Sustainability Officer and member of the Managing Board Barbara Kux, provides guidance on all sustainability-related issues company-wide. Supported by our Sustainability Office and in cooperation with  our  newly  established Siemens Sustainability Advisory Board,  the Sustainability Board concerns itself  with  sustainability strategy, our related Sustainability Program and  the monitor- ing of our sustainability-related performance. We¡¯ve defined three concrete strategic focuses. First, to further develop and  expand our  Environmental Portfolio  company-wide. Second, to optimize our  cli- mate balance and  introduce sustainability metrics for all relevant Siemens businesses. And third, to intensify dialogue with our stakeholders.

In fiscal 2009,  we also  assigned authority to issue company-wide guidelines in the areas of environ- mental protection, health management and  safety to a dedicated organization headed by Labor Direc- tor and Managing Board member Siegfried Russwurm ? a step that will also enable us to better manage this key aspect of sustainability.

Our commitment to the UN Global Compact
As a multinational company, we¡¯re aware that ? due  to our innovative strengths and  the power of our investments ? we  have  a major  responsibility for sustainable development. Our participation in the UN Global Compact testifies to this awareness. This publication is a progress report based on the prin- ciples  of the Global Compact and  the UN CEO Water Mandate. In the future, we¡¯ll continue to report in this form.

What we¡¯ve achieved
As you can see in this Report, we made substantial progress in a number of areas in fiscal 2009. Internal employee surveys and  our  top rankings in major  industry indices show that our  stakeholders have  also  drawn this  conclusion. The  Carbon  Disclosure Project  (CDP) has  placed us  once  again on  the Carbon  Disclosure Leadership Index  of the world¡¯s top 50 companies. In fiscal 2009,  we captured first place  in the ¡°Diversified Industrials¡± category of the prestigious SAM Dow Jones Sustainability Index  (DJSI World).  Our  supply  chain  sustainability management  program has  also  received recognition: We received the highest ranking in our industry in the ¡°Standards for Suppliers¡±  category.

The next steps
To achieve our  goals  of profitable growth and  long-term value  creation, we must ensure that all our activities are sustainable. And that means not only developing innovative products and  solutions tai- lored to individual customer needs and requirements, but also implementing a culture of integrity that goes  beyond mere compliance with laws and regulations. Industrial environmental protection, product responsibility, responsible  and diversity-oriented personnel management,  occupational health and  safety management, the commitment of suppliers to our own  high  standards, corporate citizenship ? in all these areas we¡¯re redoubling our  efforts to increase sustainability and  make  the world  a better place  in which to live. To you, our stakeholders, we¡¯ll regularly report on our progress. Accompany us on our journey into the future ? with your ideas  and your criticism.

Peter L?scher                                                                   
President and CEO of Siemens AG                                                                       
Barbara Kux
Member of the Managing Board of Siemens AG
and Chief Sustainability Officer

----------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Supplementary Information 

¡°Sustainability ¡± these days is a buzzword used in many  different contexts with many  different connotations. But what does  it mean for a multinational company ? We at Siemens don¡¯t just talk about sustainability. We¡¯ve made the three areas of sustainable development ? environment, business and society ? the cornerstone of all our activities. In the area of environment, we¡¯re provid- ing innovative products and solutions to improve both our own ecobalance and those of our customers and suppliers. In the area of business, we¡¯re focus- ing on long-term value creation. And in the area  of society, we¡¯re fostering
our own employees and striving to be good  citizens in all the communities
in which we are active. Although decisions in these areas are not always  free of conflicting interests, we aim to make  them transparent and to find the best solutions possible. The responsible use of natural resources, targeted invest- ments in future-oriented technologies that support profitable growth while offering customers competitive advantages, and a company ethic that goes beyond mere compliance with the law and places integrity at the center of business operations ? these are the factors enabling us to drive sustainable development and to lay the basis  for our company¡¯s successful future.


¡°We¡¯re fully committed to promoting the principles of the UN Global Compact. For us, the support and fostering of human rights, employee rights, environmental protection and the un- compromising fight against corruption are both an opportunity and an obligation.¡±

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Siemens 2010

Ladies and gentlemen,


To think about tomorrow today and to make a bright future possible for the generations to come ? this is our  aspiration. Over the past few years, we¡¯ve fostered the transformation of Siemens into an especially sustainable company. In 2010, our  many improvements enabled us to again capture leading positions on the Dow Jones Sustainability Index and in the Carbon Disclosure Project. We¡¯ve made a clear commitment to the ten principles of the UN Global  Compact and to the goal and principles of the UN¡¯s CEO Water  Mandate for the responsible use of water ? one of the world¡¯s most precious resources.

To make our  company sustainable in every  respect, challenges in a wide variety of areas lie ahead of us.  These include our  own internal environmental targets and responsible, diversity-oriented employee policies. We¡¯re also  driving occupational health and safety management and working to commit our  suppliers to our  own high standards. Other key focus areas are collective action with other stakeholders for fair market conditions and clean business practices and the Siemens Integ- rity Initiative which supports projects around the world fighting corruption and fraud with a total funding volume of US$100 million over  the next 15 years. A major challenge will be to further expand our  Environmental Portfolio. Our goal:  to generate revenue with green products and solu- tions of at least ¢æ40  billion by the end of fiscal 2014. Achieving this goal  will also  benefit the envi- ronment: already by the end of fiscal 2011, Siemens products will be helping customers cut  carbon emissions by some 300 million tons a year. More  information on our  activities is provided in the second part of this Sustainability Report.

The report¡¯s first part highlights our  contributions to the sustainable development of societies worldwide by showcasing Siemens projects in several of the world¡¯s  major cities. Our products, solutions and services are strengthening the infrastructures of key urban centers and increasing the quality of life for city dwellers. As these examples show, the challenges for sustainability differ greatly from region to region around the world. It is ? and will remain ? our  goal  to master these challenges with innovative products, solutions and ideas.

The awareness of sustainability is best promoted through dialogue. To benefit from  a wide  variety
of external opinions, we set up a panel of international experts, the Siemens Sustainability Advisory Board,  in 2010. With an idea  competition and  training programs, we¡¯re also  fostering our employees¡¯ enthusiasm for sustainability-related topics and  making them ambassadors for sustainability.

Accompany us on the next stages of our  journey into the future ? with your  ideas and a critical eye.  We¡¯re looking forward to your  suggestions and to continuing our  mutual dialogue.

Peter L?scher                                                            
President and CEO
of Siemens AG                                                     

 Barbara Kux Member of the Managing Board of Siemens AG 
and Chief Sustainability Officer
                                                               
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Supplementary Information 

Long-term thinking can be expressed in a single figure: 135 million. That¡¯s about how many  children were  born  in 2010. Like the boy on our front  cover, most of these young people will grow up in cities whose quality of life we decisively determine by our own present actions. It¡¯s today¡¯s children who will live to see if we succeed in the years ahead in rec- onciling the sometimes competing requirements
of the environment, economy and society. In fifty years,  at the very latest, they¡¯ll know if we¡¯ve man- aged  to create a genuinely sustainable economy, to permanently reduce resource consumption on our planet and to effectively limit climate change. Either way, it¡¯s our children who¡¯ll bear the consequences of our decisions today.
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Siemens 2011

Ladies and gentlemen,

Governments, societies and companies faced major challenges in 2011 ? challenges like Fukushima, energy transformation, the Arab spring, the debt crisis  and the highest carbon dioxide emissions in history. If rigorously implemented, Germany ¡¯s new energy policy will create opportunities for climate- friendly, environmental technologies. And it¡¯s here that Siemens can  make a difference ? worldwide. The good news is that sustainability has made a great deal  of progress and that it still harbors major potential. The bad news is that not enough has  been done to ensure that our children will have a world worth living in over  the long term. Developing sustainable solutions for  a world population soon approaching the seven-billion mark requires even closer cooperation with both internal and external partners. That¡¯s why  we¡¯ve made an express commitment to the goals and principles of the Global Compact and the CEO Water  Mandate of the United Nations and why we¡¯re active participants in orga- nizations like the World Business Council for Sustainable Development (WBSCD), the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI), the World Economic Forum (WEF) and the World Resources Institute (WRI).

Our progress toward becoming a highly sustainable company has made us  optimistic. In fiscal  2011, we generated revenue of ¢æ29.9 billion ? or 41% of our  total sales ? with our  Environmental Portfolio. In the same period, our green technologies enabled customers to reduce their carbon dioxide footprint by 317 million tons ? an amount equal to nearly 1% of the world¡¯s total energy-related annual CO2 emis- sions. For this commitment and for our  rigorous sustainability strategy, we  were honored with the German Sustainability Award. In the Dow Jones Sustainability Index, we were again No. 1 in the Diver- sified Industrials category, having further improved our  performance. And with a score of 97 out  of a possible 100 points, we were among the top 500 companies worldwide in the Carbon Disclosure Lead- ership Index (CDLI) for the fourth time in a row.

External assessments like these show that we¡¯re still on the right track. Because sustainability didn¡¯t become a guiding principle at Siemens only yesterday ? as the 40th anniversary of our  Environmental Office attests. We recognized the importance of environmental protection very early on, actively foster- ing ecofriendly behavior at our Company as far back  as 1971. When it comes to sustainability, we have the greatest impact now ? as then ? on our own activities. However, we also  feel increasingly respon- sible for our  entire supply chain. To show how we¡¯re honoring this responsibility in practice, the first part of this report takes you  on  a journey along our  value chain worldwide. An example from China illustrates how we¡¯re helping a supplier cut  his future energy costs. A stopover in Charlotte (U.S.) pro- vides an  insight into the high sustainability standards we¡¯ve set for our  own activities. And a look  at our work  on the ICx train demonstrates how seriously we take customer retention while jointly devel- oping mobility solutions for the future.

Sustainability is our guiding principle. We¡¯re on course, but  we still have a long way to go. Constructive dialogue with our  stakeholders and the Siemens Sustainability Advisory  Board ? a committee of lead- ing  international experts ? is helping us  achieve our  goals. To further develop our  sustainability- related activities, we seek dialogue with all our stakeholders. We¡¯re looking forward to continuing this exchange of ideas with you.

Peter L?scher                                                            
President and CEO
of Siemens AG                                                     

 Barbara Kux Member of the Managing Board of Siemens AG 
and Chief Sustainability Officer

----------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Supplementary Information 

Children are our future. To pass on to them a world worth living in is our obligation. And this is where we, as a company, have a contribution to make ? with innovative products and solutions and through a commitment to greater sustain¡© ability in our supply chain, at our own locations and, not least, at our customers. Because sustain¡© able  development for the benefit of the genera¡© tions to come concerns us all.

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Siemens 2012

Dear readers, we have only one planet to live on. Yet humanity is already consuming the equivalent of the natural resources of 1.5 planets. And the impact on the environment, the climate and society is unmistakable.

That¡¯s why we must act today to ensure that future generations inherit a world worth living in. The children from S?o Paulo featured on the front cover of this report are already part of this future. They represent our stakeholders of tomorrow ? our customers, partners, investors and employees. And they also represent the wide variety of requirements to be met as societies around the world join the quest for a sustainable future. At Siemens, we¡¯re preparing for this future with an overarching strategy that has sustainability as its guiding principle. Sustainability is more than just a buzzword: It derives from ways of thinking and acting which were developed 300 years ago and affect many areas of our life today. The concept of sustainability also had an impact on our company¡¯s founder. Werner von Siemens recognized early on that sustainability had great potential for an innovative company and that the principles of good business ? that is, efficiency and growth on the one hand, and responsibility for society and the environment, on the other ? were not mutually exclusive but mutually reinforcing. This understanding of sustainability as a business opportunity that drives economic, environmental and social progress has dominated our strategy and activities for 165 years. 

And our Company¡¯s structure reflects this focus. Sustainability is addressed at the Managing Board level and is firmly anchored in our organization. In 2009, we launched a comprehensive Sustainability Program and established the Sustainability Board, which comprises high-ranking representatives from throughout the Company, as well as the Sustainability Advisory Board, which consists of leading external experts. We¡¯re fully committed to the goals of the Global Compact and the CEO Water Mandate of the United Nations. And we actively cooperate with organizations such as the World Business Council for Sustainable Development, the Global Reporting Initiative, the World Economic Forum and the World Resources Institute. 

External assessments conducted in fiscal 2012 also attest that we¡¯re on the right track. In the Dow Jones Sustainability Index, we were named the world¡¯s most sustainable industrial company ? not only capturing the No. 1 spot for diversified industrials for the fifth time in a row but also, for the first time, leading the industrial goods and services category which includes all nine different industries. We also again improved our score in the Carbon Disclosure Project, achieving an excellent result, with 98 out of 100 points. The action we¡¯ve taken is impressive, and the facts speak for themselves ? in terms of business and environmental performance alike. In fiscal 2012, we generated ¢æ33.2 billion with the products and solutions in our Environmental Portfolio while enabling our customers to cut their CO2 emissions by 332 million tons. We also took an important step forward in the area of healthcare, where we¡¯re working with customers and partners to improve healthcare worldwide. In 2012, over 890 million people worldwide benefited from our medical imaging technologies, such as our Multix Select DR digital radiography system.

The following pages show how we¡¯re driving sustainability with respect to our business, the environment and society. Focusing on selected everyday activities at our company, we invite you to take a look at how we¡¯re demonstrating accountability while driving efficiency and growth ? in other words, how we¡¯re contributing to sustainable development. The report depicts how we¡¯re pushing efficiency in the development and production of one of our products while also increasing its customer benefit, and how we¡¯re enhancing the sustainability of our customers¡¯ businesses with our products and solutions. Find out about the challenges confronting Siemens worldwide and how we¡¯re tackling them to achieve our goals ? to the benefit of the environment, society and our Company. See for yourselves how we¡¯re tackling these challenges.

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Siemens 2013

For the first time, I¡¯m addressing you as the President and CEO of your Company. I¡¯ve been at this wonderful organization for 33 years now. Leading Siemens today is not only an enormous task; it is also a mission that I embrace with respect and dedication. The fact that millions of people benefit every day from infrastructures supported by Siemens technologies is an inspiration and an obligation as well as a source of pride. What Siemens can do, and what Siemens does, is relevant to people all around the world, whether our customers, users, employees or shareholders. Siemens stands for the electrification of the world. Digitization and automation are transforming this value chain ? and offering us major opportunities.

I¡¯m well aware of the importance of this task and of the tremendous responsibility I now also have for our more than 360,000 employees. Let me assure you of one thing: Siemens will continue to be guided by the values for which we¡¯ve always stood ? innovation, quality, reliability and engineering excellence. This will remain so in the future, and sustainability and responsibility will continue to inform our actions. These values have made us strong throughout our 166-year history, and our commitment to them will endure beyond the present and into the future.

Many things at Siemens are going well ? some, even very well. Many of our businesses are very well positioned and poised for long-term success, as examples presented in this Annual Report show. This year, for the first time, the Report also includes our Sustainability Report, in which we clearly formulate our commitment to the aims of the United Nations Global Compact. The Annual Report provides a detailed account of a quite turbulent and eventful fiscal year in which there was much light but also some shadow.

At ¢æ75.9 billion, revenue was 1% below the prior-year level. New orders climbed to ¢æ82.4 billion, a substantial 10% gain. Our order backlog now totals ¢æ100 billion. Finally, income from continuing operations amounted to ¢æ4.2 billion, including transformation costs of ¢æ1.3 billion related to our Siemens 2014 productivity program and an extraordinary gain in connection with the divestment of our shares in Nokia Siemens Networks (NSN).

All in all, these are solid results, but we¡¯re not satisfied with them ? because we fell clearly short of our potential and did not meet our initial forecast for the year. In the summer, we had to retract the margin targets we¡¯d set for our Sectors. Special burdens associated with projects in the areas of solar technology, high-speed trains, wind turbines and North Sea platforms for connecting offshore wind farms to the power grid put pressure on our profits. These burdens in operations were partially offset by the profits from the divestment of Nokia Siemens Networks (NSN) and from the cross-Sector activities of Siemens Real Estate (SRE) and Financial Services (SFS). The spinoff and public listing of OSRAM was also a welcome success. Our diligence and perseverance in preparing this move paid off, as the very gratifying development of the OSRAM share price over the past few months also confirms.

Based on these and other achievements, we¡¯ll again propose an unchanged dividend of ¢æ3.00 per share at the upcoming Annual Shareholders¡¯ Meeting. You¡¯ll also profit from the share buyback program that we intend to implement over the next two years, which will have a volume of up to ¢æ4 billion. 

Siemens has scored many successes recently ? not just in fiscal 2013 but also between 2007 and 2011. Peter Loscher, my predecessor as President and CEO, played a pivotal role in our achievements during this period and, in particular, in the exemplary investigation of the corruption affair. On behalf of the Company and its employees, I¡¯d like to express my gratitude to Mr. Loscher and my high regard for his commitment while in office over the past years.

I¡¯d also like to thank the two other members of the Managing Board who have left the Company in recent months. Barbara Kux had been responsible for supply chain management and sustainability at our Company since 2008. Her work was instrumental in Siemens¡¯ being ranked ? once again this year ? the most sustainable company across seven industries in the internationally renowned Dow Jones Sustainability Index. Brigitte Ederer also made many valuable contributions to the Company as a member of the Managing Board of Siemens AG and in her previous position as the long-time head of Siemens AG Osterreich. On behalf of the entire
Siemens workforce, I¡¯d like to extend my sincere gratitude to both Ms. Kux and Ms. Ederer for their dedicated service.

Peter Y. Solmssen will resign from the Managing Board on December 31, 2013. He played a central role in establishing a sustainable corporate culture of integrity which is viewed as exemplary worldwide. This achievement will remain our benchmark and our beacon as we further align our legal and compliance organization. I¡¯d like to thank Mr. Solmssen most sincerely for his service and his collegiality as a member of the Managing Board.

My appreciation also goes to Dr. Gerhard Cromme and the members of the Supervisory Board for their farsighted support for the work of the Managing Board. I¡¯m very pleased that the Supervisory Board has appointed Dr. Ralf P. Thomas, an outstanding financial expert, to serve as Chief Financial Officer. Dr. Thomas will be responsible for ensuring that Siemens¡¯ financial strategy remains as sound as it has always been ? because in the future, as in the past, we always want to have the resources we need for investments in growth, jobs and innovation as well as employee training and continuing education.

We¡¯ll leave many things as they are while taking decisive action on other fronts. What was not so successful will have to be adjusted and improved ? not through lots of talk, but through decisive action and hard work. We¡¯ll work together to make this happen. The entire Managing Board and Siemens¡¯ global management team are in the front rank here.

I¡¯m aware that you, our shareholders, have high expectations of us ? and rightly so. We¡¯ll work hard to meet your expectations. In doing so, we¡¯ll act judiciously, decisively and rigorously while maintaining an unwavering focus on the sustainability of our measures. Our actions are geared not to turning a quick profit but to ensuring the long-term success of our Company. And I know I have a team behind me that¡¯s unmatched and highly esteemed around the world. That¡¯s why I¡¯d like to extend my special thanks to all our employees for their dedication and achievements.

What we achieve as a team, the Siemens team, is the basis for our success. My personal conviction and my message to everyone at the Company is: Siemens will again take top priority at Siemens. This will be the guiding principle for each and every one of us ? from Managing Board member to trainee, across all Sectors, Divisions and Regions as well as at the Company ¡¯s headquarters. We¡¯ll again focus more intensively on living Siemens¡¯ virtues and values with renewed vigor every day: reliability and continuity, fairness and integrity, diligence and dedication, quality and innovation.

We don¡¯t have to reinvent Siemens. Siemens is a company with a setup that spans the electrification value chain. The growing impact of digitization and the expanding use of automation are shaping our markets, changing our businesses and opening up opportunities for innovation. We¡¯ll profit more strongly than others from the three pillars of electrification, digitization and automation. Many new competitors from other industries and technology fields are trying to penetrate our territory. We¡¯re aware of this development and prepared to meet it. Many who see our business fields as attractive and want to establish a foothold in them will soon realize that we¡¯re already on the scene. Nevertheless, we¡¯re taking changes in technologies and customer behavior seriously. We¡¯re closely following and preparing ourselves for paradigm shifts in our markets, businesses and environment, whether these shifts are driven by social media, data analytics ? that is, the processing of enormous amounts of data ? or biotechnology.

To leverage these changes for the benefit of our Company, we need unparalleled expertise in innovative technologies and unfailingly high productivity. And we must be willing to change in order to prevail against our competitors in hotly contested markets and maintain the upper hand. The best driver for any company is growth ? controlled, focused, value-creating and, above all, sustainable growth. It¡¯s essential that we set the right priorities for achieving growth. We must make wise investments, and this applies to everything from R&D expenditures to acquisitions and the systematic tapping of attractive markets.

A company like ours must aim to be a leader not only in technology but also in long-term profitability. This has nothing to do with greed ? but everything to do with maintaining our innovative strength, enhancing our competitiveness and safeguarding jobs while remaining a trusted and attractive partner for our shareholders and investors worldwide.

We¡¯re continuing to rigorously implement key elements of our Siemens 2014 program. We¡¯ll bring the program to a successful conclusion, and it will drive our profitability. All the steps we¡¯re taking must be geared to the long term, strengthen us on an ongoing basis and have an impact that extends beyond 2014. Because we don¡¯t want a brief margin-boosting flash in the pan, but changes that will keep Siemens on the road to lasting success in order to preserve jobs and reinforce our technology and market leadership. These changes will position us to narrow and, in the medium term, close the gap in profitability to our competitors. 

One thing is clear: Siemens will still be around after 2014. In fiscal 2013 ? exactly a hundred years after the construction of our Berlin-Siemensstadt location, the site of our Company headquarters until 1949 ? we laid the cornerstone for our new headquarters in Munich. We¡¯ve now also begun planning a new Siemens campus in Erlangen, Germany. Both of these construction projects are more than a commitment to the future of two locations steeped in Company tradition. They also reflect our sense of obligation. We accept the responsibility that we have, day after day and year after year, for the future of our Company. Generations of Siemens employees have done their part to ensure that the Company in which you hold a stake is intrinsically sound today. I want our successors to be able to say the same thing about us in 20 or 30 years. Through our work, diligence and dedication, we ? the Managing Board and the Company¡¯s more than 360,000 employees around the world ? can play a key role in shaping your Company¡¯s future. Joining forces, we¡¯ll act as though Siemens were our own company. That¡¯s our pledge to you.
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ United Technologies 2004

AT UTC, we don¡¯t choose between responsibility and profitability. We pursue both with discipline and focus. We do this with great products and product innovations and a relentless focus on productivity and cost reductions while at the same time meeting high standards of corporate citizenship. Good companies can do both, and UTC does. 

Corporate responsibility for us means reductions in hazardous waste generation and air emissions, the two important environmental impact categories reported to the EPA, of 89 and 93 percent, respectively, since 1990. It means reductions in energy and water usage normalized for volume of 40 and 53 percent, respectively, since 1997 when we began concentrating on these categories. It means more than 70,000 concerns and comments raised through our DIALOG and Ombudsman employee feedback systems since inception, more than $2.5 billion invested annually in research and development, and $462 million spent on employee college and university degrees in the last eight years. Corporate responsibility has led us to products like air conditioners with zero ozone impact, hydrogen fuel cells, and energy saving Gen2¢â elevators. 

Corporate responsibility means embracing the highest standards, implemented by employees everywhere. It demands a relentless focus on lessening negative impacts and increasing positive returns. 

We have a strong record but there are challenges. In 2004 these included several ethics violations at Otis in Europe, increased fines for environmental violations, and an increase in fatalities in UTC¡¯s established companies after 10 years of steady improvements. We faced each incident directly and moved quickly to adopt preventive measures and change systems. We can and will do better. 

Corporate responsibility includes profitability, which both provides the resources for investments and confirms the success of these. Many of the disciplines which enhance our performance apply equally to profitability and responsibility. UTC has solid records on both, with a cumulative total shareholder return of 975 percent over a dozen years in addition to the accomplishments reported here. 

This is our first Corporate Responsibility Report. It places environmental and social impacts alongside financial results and is intended to be a transparent and informative look at a great company. We expect to report annually on our progress. Please visit www.utc.com to learn more. 

George David
Chairman and Chief Executive Officer 

------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ United Technologies 2005

M E SS AG E  FRO M  T H E  CHA IRMA N

Corporate responsibility combines  ?nancial performance with  commitments to employees, the environment,  and communities.  We don¡¯t believe one substitutes for the others, and our record sustains this. UTC remains ranked in the  Dow Jones Sustainability  Indexes and was again recognized at the 2006 World Economic Forum in Davos as one of the ¡°100 Most Sustainable Corporations in the World.¡± Total shareholder return (combining dividends with share price appreciation) is the traditional measure of ?nancial performance, and UTC¡¯s record approaching 1,100 percent cumulatively since 1992 is more than three times the market indices. We aspire to comparable performance in all aspects
of corporate responsibility.
Converting energy to useful work is common across our products, whether aircraft engines, elevators, air condition- ers, fuel cells, or even rocket motors.  Because our products generally have long lives, the accumulated energy demands can be signi?cant.
Carrier led its industry in adopting the new U.S. federal SEER 13 energy standard for residential air conditioners, rais- ing mandated electrical ef?ciencies by 30 percent. We then spent $250 million to launch products which are 20 percent smaller, 30 percent lighter, and use 40 percent less refrig- erant than prior comparably high efficiency models. UTC Power doubles energy ef?ciency for on-site power generation by capturing otherwise waste heat to power Carrier air con- ditioning and refrigeration equipment. Otis¡¯ Gen2 elevators in their regenerative con?guration use 75 percent less elec- tricity than comparable equipment only a decade ago.
In our own facilities worldwide, we¡¯re using 18 percent less kilowatts and Btu¡¯s than in 1997, on production volumes materially larger. Our water consumption worldwide is down comparably 44 percent. Since 1990, emissions to air and hazardous waste in the U.S. (both as reported to the EPA) are down 95 percent and 88 percent, respectively. Next are higher internal goals still and extending these efforts to UTC¡¯s supply chain.
Corporate responsibility includes unlimited education f or our employe e s . U TC ¡¯s recognized and applaude d Employee Scholar Program marked its tenth year in 2005 with cumulative  spending  of over a half billion dollars and 18,500 college and university degrees earned. For more details on this extraordinary program, go to the Corporate Responsibility page at www.utc.com.
We donated $17.6 million to nonprofit organizations regionally and globally last year and marked  25 years of supporting the arts with  exhibitions in New York City and Hartford, Connecticut. Over these 25 years, UTC has spon- sored 54 exhibitions in 13 countries at a cumulative cost of
$55 million.
Although we continued our remarkable record in 2005 of having reduced  lost workday  injuries by 14 times since 1990, we were challenged greatly by increased  fatalities. Twelve employees lost their  lives, ?ve at Otis and seven at UTC Fire & Security.  I review each fatality personally with the entire  operating  chain  of command  to determine  root causes and change practices  and equipment accordingly. No effort has had higher priority at UTC, yet we regard these results as unsatisfactor y. Elevators are dangerous work- places with vertical spaces, high voltage, and heavy moving objects. In our Fire & Security business, we provide armed response  services  in emerging markets  with  inadequate  police forces. We are determined to do better and have, for example, upgraded body armor, expanded training, and improved procedures for this armed response service.
In response to the discovery in early 2004 of the ?rst sig- ni?cant lapse in our ethics and compliance program since it was ?rst launched worldwide in 1990, we are strengthening this otherwise successful program.  Steps include an update and re-issue of our Code of Ethics, increases in Business Practices Of?cer (BPO) staf?ng and limitations on other responsibilities BPOs may have, and making mandatory an ethics and compliance element in annual performance dis- cussions with salaried employees worldwide.
This repor t covers in more detail the six areas of our corporate  responsibility commitments: governance, prod- ucts, suppliers and customers, environment, communities, and employees.
Please go to www.utc.com to learn more about UTC and to provide feedback on this report.


George David
Chairman and Chief Executive Officer

------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ United Technologies 2006

Corporate responsibility means operational excellence at UTC, carried out by nearly 215,000 employees doing their jobs safely, ethically and profitably. We believe globalization, urbanization and climate change provide challenges to our world and opportunities to invest profitably and responsibly for our shareowners, employees and communities.
UTC¡¯s performance for shareholders has been exceptional. Total shareholder return was 14 percent in 2006, and cumulatively 338 percent over the last decade. We have achieved these results while conforming to high ethical and environmental standards and working to meet our obligations to employees for a safe and productive workplace and opportunities to improve themselves.
UTC closed out successfully in 2006 prior goals to improve Environment, Health & Safety performance and set new goals for 2007 through 2010. Over the prior decade, lost workday incidence and U.S. recordable incidence are down 80 and 78 percent, respectively. Over the same period, worldwide energy use measured in Btu¡¯s is down 19 percent on a company twice the size. Water use is down comparably 49 percent. Longer term, we have reduced hazardous waste and air emissions as reported to the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency by 89 and 98 percent since 1990, respectively.
Tragically, five employees lost their lives in 2006, and 41 were seriously injured. There is no higher priority than eliminating workplace fatalities and serious injuries, and we have fallen short of this standard. Our businesses by their nature have large and dispersed field workforces operating with exposures to hazards. We have made great progress in minimizing these exposures with equipment redesigns to fail-safe standards, protective clothing and methods and relentless employee training.  We will not cease our efforts until workplaces free from hazards are truly achieved.

UTC¡¯s environmental goals through 2010 are aggressive and include for the first time a greenhouse gas metric.  The latter (sometimes called carbon dioxide equivalents) arises from implementation of the new accounting standards and methodologies set jointly by the World Business Council for Sustainable Development and the World Resources Institute.  Our goal is 3 percent annual reductions in carbon dioxide equivalents independent of organic growth, which compares favorably to our already significant reductions in energy use averaging 2 percent annually over the last decade.
We relaunched UTC¡¯s ethics and compliance program in 2006. Our Code of Ethics, first published in 1990, was reissued and re-emphasized.  New and important program elements include ethics training and an ethics component in performance appraisals, both mandatory each year for all salaried employees worldwide, and significantly increased Business Practices staffing.
2006 marked the first decade of UTC¡¯s widely recognized Employee Scholar Program, with employees having earned more than 20,800 degrees. Current employee participation exceeds 8,500 domestically and 4,500 internationally. The program¡¯s success is due to its scope and benefits, which include not only UTC paid tuition and fees but also paid time away from work, freedom to choose courses and concentrations without limitation, and UTC common stock awards on degree attainment. These awards have totaled more than four million shares since program inception, currently valued at more than $250 million.
This printed report is shorter than prior reports, with enhanced information appearing on our Web site, www.utc.com/responsibility.  Please visit this site to learn more and provide feedback on our performance.

George David  
Chairman and Chief Executive Officer

Louis Ch?nevert  
President and Chief Operating Officer

------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ United Technologies 2007

Along with profitability and operational excellence, corporate responsibility is an essential priority at UTC.
As our statement of values says, ¡°Successful  businesses improve the human condition.  We maintain the highest ethical, environmental and safety standards ever ywhere, and we encourage and celebrate our employees¡¯ active roles in their communities.¡±
UTC¡¯s shareholder per formance has been exceptional. Total shareholder return was 24 percent in 2007, and cumulatively 388 percent over the last decade.  We are proud to have achieved these results while maintaining principles
of good corporate citizenship including the highest ethical and environmental standards.
In 2007, UTC launched its latest and most aggressive set of Environment, Health & Safety (EH&S) goals.  We have moved uniformly to absolute goals rather than normalizing for volume as applied to some goals previously.  For the impor tant greenhouse gases (GHG) categor y, we have also adopted the measurement protocol of the World Business Council for Sustainable Development and World Resources Institute.  This protocol captures direct and indirect
(e.g., GHG arising from business travel on commercial aircraft) greenhouse gas impacts of CO2  and five comparable gases.   UTC¡¯s 2007-2010 absolute reduction goal is
3 percent annually or 12 percent cumulatively, and we exceeded this with a 5 percent reduction in 2007.  Although on a different measurement basis, this GHG goal measured in metric tons of CO2  equivalents compares favorably to UTC¡¯s already notable reductions in energy use globally averaging 2 percent annually since 1997.
Other impor tant goals include water use (10 percent reduced by 2010), non-recycled industrial process waste (30 percent reduced by 2010), and employee lost workday
incident rate (65 percent reduced to 0.17 in 2010).  Results in 2007 for each are well ahead of commitments, with water use reduced 6 percent, non-recycled industrial process waste 14 percent, and lost workday incident rate 37 percent to 0.31.
In 2007, 81 percent of employees par ticipated in UTC¡¯s biennial employee sur vey, the highest par ticipation since the worldwide sur vey began in 2000.  Overall employee favorability increased 3 percentage points from the prior sur vey, and ethics, EH&S and customer focus were the highest rated categories.  Impor tantly, the ethics categor y score increased 10 percentage points.
UTC¡¯s commitments to employee diversity have been sustained and strong.  Since 1997, UTC¡¯s diversity population (females, people of color and African-Americans) has more than doubled in the executive, managerial and professional categories combined.  Diversity representation has also increased in eight of nine measured categories, and we anticipate continuing increases.  Among our many diversity initiatives, a traditionally impor tant one is INROADS which develops and places young minorities in business.  UTC¡¯s involvement began more than 20 years ago, and we were recognized this year by INROADS as its top corporate par tner with 214 interns.
The year¡¯s progress was not without setbacks.  Two issues repor ted previously were resolved early in the year, the European Union investigation of car tel behavior in
the elevator industr y and a Hamilton Sundstrand violation of the U.S. Clean Water Act.  This repor t includes details, and UTC¡¯s compliance mechanisms have been renewed and strengthened accordingly.  Tragically, four UTC employees lost their lives in 2007.  Although reduced from prior years and including two deaths as the result of a violent crime and
one motor vehicle fatality, any loss of life is unacceptable.
Strengthened compliance mechanisms included expanded employee ethics training and mandator y inclusion of an ethics component in annual appraisals for all salaried employees worldwide.  The former included 480,000 modules for 95,000 salaried employees.  The latter was completed for 96 percent of domestic salaried employees.  UTC¡¯s long time DIALOG system for repor ting employee concerns confidentially, already Web enabled and available globally, was centralized in 2007 in response to employee feedback.
A total of 69,054 DIALOGs have been written and responded to since the program began in 1986.
On behalf of UTC shareowners,  we thank all UTC employees who continue to make this a truly amazing company.  As always, we welcome feedback on per formance at www.utc.com/responsibility.

George David
Chairman and Chief Executive Officer

Louis Ch?nevert
President and Chief Operating Officer

------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ United Technologies 2008

Dear Shareowner

UTC delivered strong results in 2008 despite the economic challenges which accelerated across the world¡¯s economies as the year progressed. As in years past, this reflected the competitive- ness of the Corporation¡¯s businesses in markets worldwide and the maturity of its operating disciplines and management team. We believe we are well positioned to continue to outper- form peers in 2009.

The board increased the dividend by just over 20 percent in October. In the decade ending
2008, dividends increased more than 300 percent and paralleled earnings increases over the same period. Free cash flow again exceeded net income and liquidity remains high. We early retired $500 million of long term debt maturing in 2009 following a $1.25 billion issuance in December on attractive terms.

Revenues reached $58.7 billion, 7 percent above the prior year. Earnings grew 15 percent to
$4.90 per share. Notwithstanding these exceptional results, UTC¡¯s stock price contracted along with virtually all others in 2008. However, we outperformed peers and market averages as we have so often in the past. We anticipate continued outperformance and took advantage of
price weakness to accelerate share repurchase to $3.2 billion for the year, a record for UTC.

We look ahead to 2009 with confidence despite market and economic uncertainties. Preparing for contracting markets while continuing to invest in long term product development were management¡¯s focus throughout 2008. Restructuring costs totaled $357 million for the year and were well in excess of one-time gains. Company funded research and development increased $100 million to $1.8 billion. We see unusual opportunities to field new products
and believe these will vindicate management¡¯s and investors¡¯ confidence in building on UTC¡¯s already leading market franchises worldwide.

Notable developments in 2008 included completion of flight test at Airbus of Pratt & Whitney¡¯s new Geared Turbofan engine. This next generation engine promises 12 percent lower fuel consumption and more than half reductions in both nitrogen oxides and noise over engines currently in flight. Sikorsky¡¯s X2 Technology demonstrator flew first in August and is confirming expectations of flight at speeds exceeding 250 knots while preserving a helicopter¡¯s traditional advantages of hover and vertical flight. Both products reflect decades of development and offer exceptional promise.

Cost reduction and productivity are embedded disciplines at UTC. We manage these through our Achieving Competitive Excellence (ACE) operating system which has been deployed across UTC worldwide for more than a decade. Each of 859 management sites is assessed against standards and expectations and rated accordingly. Forty-nine percent of sites achieved Gold and Silver status in 2008, and we remain on track to achieve our 70 percent goal by the end
of 2009. Over and over again we confirm that these ACE disciplines add materially to productivity, quality, delivery and balance sheet metrics for UTC. They are a principal reason for the Corporation¡¯s outperformance over extended periods.

We affirm our traditional commitments to the highest standards of corporate responsibility, including compliance with laws and regulations and UTC¡¯s Code of Ethics, environmental performance, and a safe and healthy place to work. For the first time, this Annual Report combines business and financial results with those on corporate responsibility. Notable accomplishments in 2008 were continued and significant improvements in lost workday inci- dence and resource use generally. The former decreased to 0.26, 16 percent improved over
2007. UTC¡¯s carbon footprint decreased 6 percent in 2008 and exceeded the 2 percent average improvement rate over the last decade. Our current carbon footprint reduction goal is 3 per- cent annually through 2010. Water consumption decreased 7 percent in 2008 and cumulatively is 53 percent lower than a decade ago. These reductions are absolute and are exceptional on business volumes more than twice those 10 years ago.

The binding theme in these business and corporate responsibility results for UTC is doing more with less. It is the core operating commitment and value at this Corporation.  Looking back at more than a decade¡¯s performance, we affirm that startling gains are possible and, indeed, at rates we would not have thought possible at the outset. It¡¯s the reason we should all be confident in a long term and bright future for the world¡¯s economies and resource con- sumption rates even in times of uncertainty and anxiety generally.

The results reported throughout this Annual Report reflect the dedication and commitment
of UTC¡¯s more than 220,000 employees worldwide. On behalf of shareowners, we thank every single one for exceptional contributions.  This is a truly amazing company and employees make it so.

George David, 
Chairman      

Louis Ch?nevert, 
President  and Chief Executive Officer

------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ United Technologies 2009

Dear Shareowner
2009 was a year of many global challenges and yet also a year in which we made great progress. As the world economy weakened, we focused on what we could control. We lowered our costs, effectively redeployed capital, and strengthened our portfolio with key acquisitions and divestures. In an extraordinarily difficult business environment, strong execution allowed us to deliver solid financial results and value to customers while positioning UTC to continue to outperform peers in 2010 and beyond.

Difficult end markets across our businesses resulted in lower revenues and earnings for the year. However, exceptionally effective cost controls and restructuring in advance of reduced volumes allowed us to report strong operating margins. Solid execution on cost and working capital goals also resulted in exceptional cash performance, with cash flow from operations less capital expenditures once again exceeding net income attributable to common shareowners, even after $1.3 billion in pension contributions.

UTC continued to outperform on total shareowner return. Notwithstanding the toughest business conditions in decades, our total return for the year was 33 percent, ranking UTC 11th among the Dow Jones Industrials and within the top half of the S&P 500. Of today¡¯s 30 Dow Jones Industrial stocks, UTC is one of just two companies whose share price more than doubled in the last decade. UTC¡¯s dividend rate over the same period nearly tripled.

We look ahead to 2010 with confidence. While near-term outlooks for commercial aerospace and global construction markets remain uncertain, we expect to grow earnings despite flat organic revenues. Moreover, UTC is well positioned to resume strong revenue growth when the global economy does recover.

We continue to invest in products and technologies that will allow UTC to take advantage of megatrends that will shape the world in coming decades, including rapid growth in emerging markets, urbanization and demand for energy-efficient as well as environmentally sound solutions. Last year, UTC spent $3.7 billion on company- and customer-funded research and development. Hamilton Sundstrand delivered nine major systems that contributed to the successful first flight of Boeing¡¯s 787 Dreamliner airplane. Hamilton Sundstrand is the largest integrated systems supplier on this remarkable new airplane. Flight testing confirmed Pratt & Whitney¡¯s revolutionary PurePower Geared Turbofan engine technology, delivering double-digit reductions in fuel burn, emissions, noise and maintenance costs. Alongside
these is Sikorsky¡¯s X2 Technology demonstrator aircraft, recognized as one of the world¡¯s top new technologies by Time magazine, Popular Science and Popular Mechanics, and affirming our belief that X2 Technology has the potential to transform vertical flight and open new helicopter markets accordingly.

We made significant investments at the same time in our commercial businesses where demand is growing for products that reduce building energy consumption and associated greenhouse gas emissions. This demand creates extraordinary opportunities for UTC with our unique portfolio of energy-efficient products and solutions as well as our strong presence in rapidly urbanizing emerging markets.

In addition to investments in new technologies, our aggressive restructuring efforts have positioned UTC for long-term growth. By consolidating its large network of branch offices, UTC Fire & Security has lowered costs, better aligned itself with customers and positioned the company for growth. Carrier¡¯s business transformation continued in 2009 with the divesture of low-performing assets outside of its core businesses and the acquisition of high-technology solutions and services companies. Otis, already the most profitable and cost-efficient company in its industry, continued to drive earnings growth by increasing and enhancing services to customers globally.

At the center of our restructuring efforts and productivity improvements is our ACE (Achieving Competitive Excellence) operating system. By the end of 2009, 70 percent of company sites had achieved the highest operating performance levels of ACE Silver or Gold. To sustain the benefits of ACE, we are now driving
this industry-leading operating system across UTC¡¯s supply base and remain on track to achieve our goal of having 70 percent of key suppliers at the highest levels by 2011.

Our performance in 2009 was achieved with a complete commitment to corporate responsibility: operating with the highest ethical standards, protecting people and the environment, and contributing to the communities where we conduct business. UTC has embraced sustainability, not only in our products, but also within our operations. As in prior years, we exceeded our rigorous goals for employee safety, greenhouse gas emissions and water consumption in 2009, and remain on track to do the same in 2010.

Looking to the future, our experienced management team, strong balance sheet and focus on operational excellence allow us to see opportunities in these uncertain times. We also have the finest workforces in our industries. Through the efforts and commitment of these employees, UTC has become a stronger company under the worst economic conditions of our lifetimes. On behalf of all shareowners,  we thank our more than 205,000 employees for embracing change and making UTC a truly amazing company.

In closing,  I want to acknowledge the extraordinary leadership of my predecessor and friend, George David. At the end of 2009, George retired from UTC after a 34-year career that included 14 years as Chief Executive and 13 years as Chairman. During his tenure as Chairman or CEO, UTC¡¯s revenues more than doubled, and our market capitalization rose from $8 billion to $64 billion as 2009 closed. UTC also returned $26 billion to shareowners in the form of dividends and share repurchases. Total shareowner return between 1994 and year-end 2009 exceeded 1,000 percent, compared to 296 percent for the Dow Jones Industrials and 223 percent for the S&P 500. Perhaps most notably, George demonstrated that corporate responsibility and profitability go hand in hand. He was unwavering in his insistence that UTC achieve unmatched financial results while maintaining the highest levels of corporate citizenship.

With his unrelenting pursuit of excellence, process discipline and commitment to customers, George turned our company into a global, high-performance  organization. I am proud to carry on this legacy and build upon these accomplishments  in the years ahead.

Louis R. Ch?nevert Chairman & Chief Executive Officer

----------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Supplementary Information 

Louis R. Ch?nevert, Chairman
& Chief Executive Officer, stands before a bank of Otis Gen2 elevators at the new Connecticut Science Center, which opened in 2009.
The science center generates the majority of its energy needs from a UTC Power
fuel cell, one of the cleanest energy-generation sources in the world today.

------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ United Technologies 2010

Proactive restructuring and improved productivity  drove exceptional margin expansion across United  Technologies last year. Along with strong operating  performance came strong cash generation, with cash flow from operations  less capital expenditures  again exceeding net income. We returned approximately 75 percent of this cash flow to shareowners through dividends and share repurchases.* We also increased the dividend 10 percent, marking the 74th consecutive year United  Technologies has paid dividends to shareowners.
In addition, UTC repurchased  $2.2 billion in stock, completed  nearly $3 billion in acquisitions and contributed more than $1.5 billion to our global pension plans.
Over the past decade, United  Technologies has continued  to outperform our peers and key market indices on total shareowner return.  For the period from December  31, 2000, through December  31, 2010, UTC has delivered total share- owner return  of 140 percent, nearly four times the Dow Jones Industrials and more than nine times the S&P 500.
We look to 2011 with confidence in our ability to again deliver solid earnings growth. Despite continued  uncertainty in the strength  and timing of the global economic recovery, we see improvement in most of our end markets, with particu- lar strength  in emerging markets and commercial aerospace. These improving markets give us confidence in our ability
to accelerate top-line  organic growth in 2011. Our lean cost structure  resulting from aggressive restructuring actions will allow us to convert growth opportunities into strong bottom-line results.
Looking further  ahead, research and development  focused on game-changing technologies  will continue  to drive growth. Last year, UTC invested more than $3.6 billion in company- and customer-funded R&D, including the innovative Sikorsky X2 Technology demonstrator and Pratt & Whitney¡¯s revolu- tionary PurePower Geared Turbofan engine. In December,  Airbus became the fourth aircraft manufacturer to select the Geared Turbofan engine when it announced  the new engine option (neo) for its A320 family of aircraft. We believe this selection will greatly enhance Pratt & Whitney¡¯s position in the commercial aircraft market for decades to come and validates our strategy of investing in technologies in anticipation  of where our markets are headed.
Also positioning  UTC for long-term growth are the aggressive restructuring and portfolio improvements  we have made. One example is Carrier¡¯s business transformation over the last few years. Carrier  realigned its portfolio by divesting low-performing, non-core  assets and investing in high-technology, energy-efficient,  and environmentally sound products and services. As a result, Carrier  has become a stronger,  more focused and higher returns  business.
UTC¡¯s portfolio was further strengthened by the $1.8 billion acquisition of GE  Security, which closed in March 2010. This acquisition added scale, market reach and product  offerings, enhancing  UTC Fire & Security¡¯s status as a leading franchise
in the $100 billion global fire safety and electronic security industry. Solid execution and integration made this acquisition accretive in year one, ahead of schedule, demonstrating our disciplined approach to acquisitions and capital redeployment.
Across the entire company, our ACE (Achieving Competitive  Excellence) operating  system continues to drive cost reduction, improved efficiencies and customer satisfaction. Having achieved our goal of certifying 70 percent of UTC sites at ACE Silver or Gold, we set higher targets in 2010 with a new goal of 80 percent by 2012. We recognize that improving our supply chain performance is critical to sustaining the benefits of ACE, which is why we also increased the target number  of suppliers in our industry-leading Supplier Gold program from
50 to 70 percent of UTC¡¯s key supplier spend.
Just as important as our business accomplishments  is the manner  in which we achieve them. UTC has an unwavering commitment to maintaining  the highest ethical standards, to providing a safe and healthy workplace for our employees, and to demonstrating environmental leadership in our opera- tions and products. To measure our performance in these
areas, we established an aggressive set of four-year performance goals in 2006. We closed 2010 exceeding our targets with a 73 percent reduction  in the lost workday incident rate,
a 24 percent absolute reduction  in water consumption, and a 22 percent absolute reduction  in greenhouse  gas emissions.
Building upon this success, we launched new 2015 Sustainability Goals in January 2011. These goals again include aggressive absolute reduction  targets for greenhouse  gas emissions, water consumption and non-recycled waste. Our 2015 goals set higher targets for employee safety worldwide and greater energy-efficiency performance for all new products. We also have expanded our goals to include targeted  supply chain reductions.  The evolution of our Sustainability Goals reflects our culture of continuous  improvement and reaffirms our belief that profitability and responsibility go hand in hand.

In closing, I continue  to see tremendous opportunities for United  Technologies. Our portfolio of products and services uniquely positions UTC to support, and to benefit from, widespread urbanization  and growth in today¡¯s emerging markets. Countries such as China and India are already seeing big changes with much more to come. Around the world, more skyscrapers, schools, airports, hospitals and stadiums are being built ? and the need for air travel between cities is increasingly evident. As this occurs, and global demand for energy rises,
the need for energy-efficient  solutions creates additional opportunities. UTC¡¯s energy-efficient  innovations of today will be the best practices of tomorrow,  reducing environmental impact, eliminating waste and driving our long-term growth.
As always, the performance highlighted  throughout this report reflects the dedication and commitment of an experi- enced senior management team and more than 200,000 UTC employees around the world. On behalf of all shareowners, we again thank employees for their many contributions and for making UTC a truly extraordinary  company.
It also is appropriate to thank all of our customers for the trust and confidence they place in us. We remain committed  to finding better, faster and more efficient ways to deliver value. We will continue  to set big goals and deliver big results for our customers and shareowners.

Louis R. Ch?nevert
Chairman  & Chief Executive Officer

 * this represents funds returned to shareowners as a percentage of a cash flow measure we call free cash flow. We define free cash flow as cash flow from operations less capital expenditures. In 2010, utC generated cash flow from operations of $5.9 billion and capital expenditures were approximately $900 million, resulting in free cash flow of $5 billion.  
We returned approximately 63 percent of cash flow from operations to shareowners through 
dividends and share repurchases.

---------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Supplementary Information

Dear Shareowner 
2010 was another  strong year for United Technologies. Solid execution across our business units delivered double-digit  earnings growth despite numerous  challenges in many of our end markets. In addition to meeting our 2010 financial goals, we positioned  United  Technologies for sustained double-digit  earnings growth in the future. We expanded our presence in higher-growth emerging markets, increased our investment in game-changing technologies, and maintained  our focus on cost reduction  and disciplined cash redeployment.

------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ United Technologies 2011

Dear Shareowner
Our focus on operating performance in 2011 drove organic growth across UTC, with all business segments achieving double-digit operating margins. Most notable, Carrier achieved its 12 percent margin goal in 2011, one year ahead of our target. This success was the result  of strong operational focus, cost containment efforts and execution of its business  transformation strategy.

Along with strong operating performance came strong cash generation, with cash flow  from operations less capital expenditures again exceeding net income. Strong cash performance during the year enabled us to raise our dividend by 12.9 percent. This year also marked the
75th consecutive year that United Technologies has paid  a dividend. Through dividend payments and share repurchase, United Technologies returned 67 percent
of its cash flow  to our shareowners.*

UTC¡¯s long-term total shareowner return continued to exceed  that of peers and key market indices. For the period from December 31, 2001, through December 31, 2011, UTC delivered total shareowner return of 175 percent, more than  three  times  the Dow  Jones industrials and more than  five times  the S&P 500.

While  the near-term global economic outlook remains challenging, we look to the future with confidence. We believe  our announced agreement to acquire Goodrich, the largest acquisition in United Technologies¡¯ history, marks the start  of a bright new chapter for UTC and will significantly strengthen our position in the fast-growing commercial aerospace market. Goodrich, a leading global supplier of systems and services  to the aerospace and defense  industry, will be an excellent strategic fit with UTC¡¯s existing aerospace portfolio. Goodrich has a well- established presence in areas where  we do not, such as aircraft landing gear, braking systems and nacelles. Together, Goodrich and United Technologies will be well positioned to provide greater value to our customers with better, more  integrated products and services  for
the next-generation aircraft at a more  competitive price.

Since the agreement was announced, customer feedback has been overwhelmingly positive, and integration plan-  ning is progressing very  smoothly. We anticipate closing the transaction in mid-2012 and are excited to welcome the Goodrich employees to United Technologies. We are also excited about the opportunity to bring together the complementary capabilities of our two great companies to provide additional value to our customers.

Further strengthening our position in the commercial aerospace market was the agreement to purchase Rolls-Royce¡¯s share of IAE, which  produces the V2500 engine  for the A320 family of aircraft. Upon  closing,  which  is expected in mid-2012, UTC will become the majority shareholder of IAE. This new ownership structure positions Pratt & Whitney for strong growth in the important single- aisle aircraft segment, as IAE has more  than 4,500 V2500 engines  in service  today and nearly  2,000 engines  on order. The new structure will also allow  customers to transition smoothly from the current V2500 engine  to Pratt & Whitney¡¯s new Geared Turbofan engine  for the Airbus A320neo aircraft family.

In 2011, we also positioned UTC for long-term growth with the announcement of significant organizational changes  that will group a number of UTC business units into  new aerospace and commercial building organizations. This new structure will allow  United Technologies to more  efficiently serve our global customer base through greater integra- tion  across product lines and drive  growth by taking full advantage of technology investments and the company¡¯s footprint in emerging markets.

On the aerospace side, we created UTC Propulsion & Aerospace Systems, which  brings the Pratt & Whitney and Hamilton Sundstrand businesses  under  a new leadership structure. As we position ourselves for a growth phase in the aerospace cycle, this new organizational structure will allow  us to leverage the long-term investments we have made in aerospace systems, including systems developed for the Boeing 787 and in the Geared Turbofan technol- ogy. Closer coordination by Pratt & Whitney and Hamilton Sundstrand, two world-class franchises, will also position UTC to win increased content on next-generation aircraft with more  integrated propulsion and systems offerings.
The anticipated integration of Goodrich into the new organizational structure will bring greater benefits, including increased opportunities for more  highly integrated products and services  for our customers, and additional cost synergies through leveraging a common supply base and low-cost source  initiatives.

On the commercial side, the UTC Climate, Controls & Security organization consolidates the Carrier  and UTC Fire & Security business  units. This new organiza- tion creates a strategic growth platform that will better serve customers, increase  field  productivity and take full advantage of product-line synergies.  The new structure also positions UTC to respond to a growing demand, especially in emerging markets, for more  integrated solutions, including advanced building controls, climate systems, and enterprise fire and security systems. As
the global economy recovers, and more  skyscrapers, schools, airports, hospitals and stadiums are built in developing markets such as India, China and Brazil over the next decade, the increased interoperability of building systems will provide our global customers with better building management, efficiency and safety.

There were many  notable successes across United Technologies in 2011. Among them  was the commercial success of the Geared Turbofan engine  with both exist- ing and new customers. To date, Pratt & Whitney has received orders  for more  than 2,000 PurePower Geared Turbofan engines, including options, while  successfully completing more  than 1,500 hours of full engine  testing, validating the expected improvements in fuel burn, emis- sions and noise. We anticipate continued market success for the Geared Turbofan engine  in the years ahead as air travel between new and existing cities  grows, and our aerospace customers seek quieter, cleaner  and more fuel-efficient solutions.

United Technologies continues to receive  outstanding third-party recognition for our performance. We were honored that TIME magazine recognized the Geared Turbofan engine  as the most important development in aviation in 2011. We are also proud that in March 2011
Sikorsky¡¯s X2 Technology demonstrator was awarded the prestigious Collier Trophy.
On the military side, Pratt & Whitney¡¯s F135 engine  for the Joint Strike  Fighter (JSF) met  or exceeded all performance and cost targets and achieved significant new milestones in 2011, including supporting flawless  sea trials  of the short  takeoff and vertical landing (STOVL) variant aboard the USS Wasp. The outstanding performance of the F135 vali- dates the decision of the U.S. Congress  and Department of Defense  to eliminate funding for an extra  engine, choosing the F135 as the sole engine  for the JSF.

In closing,  2011 was a year of positioning UTC for long-  term earnings growth. We announced transformational acquisitions in our core businesses, and we are aligning
our organizational structure to capitalize on emerging and growth markets. We also remain  focused on productivity and improved our operational performance by driving ACE in our own  facilities and in our supply chain. We delivered strong earnings  growth and cash performance, and we raised our dividend. Simply  put, 2011 was a very  solid year for UTC.

As always, UTC¡¯s outstanding performance over the past year reflects the dedication and commitment of UTC¡¯s senior management team and our 200,000 employees around the world. On behalf  of our shareowners, I thank our employees for their  many contributions and for making United Technologies a truly amazing company.

I also thank  our customers for the confidence and trust they  have placed in us. We recognize that our future success depends on our ability to find  better, faster and more  efficient ways to deliver value. I¡¯m confident we can do this and outperform peers in the years ahead. I know  we will experience many  more  amazing successes and continue to develop innovative products that transform modern life ? and perform as impressively as the United Technologies employees who  make them.


louis r. Ch?nevert
Chairman & Chief Executive Officer

* This represents funds  returned to shareowners as a percentage of a cash flow  measure  we call free cash flow. We define  free cash flow  as cash flow from operations less capital expenditures. In 2011, UTC generated cash flow from operations of $6.6 billion,  and capital expenditures were  $983  million, resulting in free cash flow  of $5.6 billion. We returned approximately
57 percent of cash flow  from operations to shareowners through dividends and share repurchases.

----------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Supplementary Information 

2011 was another strong year for united technologies. Solid execution across our business  units allowed us to again deliver double-digit earnings growth. our continued focus on improving productivity, investing in game-changing technologies and expanding our presence in fast-growing emerging markets has positioned us to continue to grow our base business  in 2012 despite an uncertain global economic outlook. looking beyond 2012, the major  acquisitions we announced in 2011, involving Goodrich and IAe International Aero  engines, will transform our company, setting the foundation for strong earnings growth in 2013 and beyond.

----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- United Technologies 2012

Dear Shareowner

2012 was a year of transformation and accomplishment for United Technologies. By acquiring Goodrich and majority ownership in the IAE International Aero Engines collaboration, we strengthened our position in the fast-growing commercial aerospace market. These acquisitions brought tremendous new capabilities, technologies and leadership talent to our company. We further strengthened and streamlined our fire and security portfolio by divesting non-core businesses and applying Carrier¡¯s successful portfolio transformation strategy to our portfolio. These actions enable us to better focus on growth opportunities in our core aerospace and building systems markets.

Our reshaped portfolio, investments in game-changing technologies and expanding emerging market presence?combined with our relentless drive to improve productivity, reduce costs and leverage our global scale?position us well to return to double-digit arnings growth in 2013 and beyond.

While the global economy remained challenging during this year of portfolio transformation, United Technologies delivered solid financial performance in 2012, highlighted by strong cash generation. For the year, cash flow from operations less capital expenditures once again exceeded net income. This strong cash performance, as well as solid execution of the portfolio transformation, enabled us to pay down approximately one-third of the debt from the Goodrich acquisition and allowed us to resume our share repurchase program in 2013. 

We also increased our dividend by 11.5 percent in 2012, marking the 76th consecutive year United Technologies has paid a dividend to shareowners. Our long-term total shareowner return continued to exceed that of our peers and key market indices. For the past decade, from December 31, 2002, through December 31, 2012, UTC delivered total shareowner return of 225 percent, more than double either the Dow Jones Industrials or the S&P 500.

With our portfolio transformation substantially complete, United Technologies begins 2013 focused on integration and execution. Even with a soft European economy and a decline in U.S. defense spending, the growth opportunities available for UTC are truly amazing. Two simple facts highlight the scale of these opportunities. Today only an estimated 15 percent of the world's population has ever flown, and every year for the next two decades, 15 million to 20 million people are expected to move to urban centers. Around the world, more skyscrapers, schools, hospitals and stadiums are being built, driving the demand for elevators, air-conditioning, and fire and security systems, as well as for air travel between cities. United Technologies is well positioned to capitalize on this rapid urbanization and strong commercial aerospace growth with our game-changing technologies and products that provide greater energy efficiency and meet local market demands. 

The benefits of the new organizational structure we announced in the fall of 2011 became clear in 2012, allowing us to better leverage our global scale, talent and operating system to drive margin growth across the portfolio. UTC Climate, Controls & Security?the combination of our Carrier and UTC Fire & Security businesses?achieved record, industry-leading profit margins by successfully executing its portfolio transformation strategy, focusing on core businesses to drive organic growth and generating more than $100 million in integration synergies. At UTC Propulsion & Aerospace Systems, the team is focused on exceeding our target of delivering $400 million of annual savings related to the Goodrich acquisition. We expect to achieve approximately half of these savings by the end of 2013. Additional synergies will come from leveraging a common supply base and greater UTC content on newer aircraft platforms.

Across the portfolio, there were many other accomplishments in 2012. Among them, Sikorsky achieved a major milestone by certifying the S-76D helicopter, which provides customers with higher cruise speeds, better fuel efficiency, greater reliability, and future capabilities, including rotor de-icing. Pratt & Whitney continued to win significant orders for its revolution-ary PurePower Geared Turbofan engine, with nearly 3,000 announced engine orders, including options, as of the end of 2012. Engine testing has been completed for the Bombardier CSeries and has begun for the Airbus A320neo. Ground and flight testing has validated the expected improvements in fuel burn, emissions and noise reduction. In January 2013, Embraer became the fifth aircraft manufacturer to select the PurePower engine when it announced the Geared Turbofan as the exclusive power for its new second-generation E-Jet aircraft family. This selection will greatly enhance Pratt & Whitney¡¯s position in the commercial aerospace market for decades to come. 

On the commercial side, Otis continues to significantly strengthen its position by introducing new products tailored to specific end markets, including a Gen2 elevator application for the fast-growing social housing segment in China and an upcoming Gen2 application with a battery-backup system for the Indian and South Asian markets. Otis also significantly expanded its presence in China by opening a new manufacturing facility in Chongqing, supporting growth in central and western China. This factory and new factories scheduled to open in Bengaluru and S?o Paulo in 2013 highlight Otis¡¯ customer-focused strategy of investing in key growth markets around the world.

A successful portfolio transformation positioned UTC Climate, Controls & Security for strong growth as the commercial construction and U.S. housing markets recover. The company also enhanced its position as a leading provider of efficient and sustainable solutions. New product launches included the high-efficiency Infinity 98 gas furnace; the WeatherExpert roof-top unit, the company¡¯s most efficient commercial rooftop unit ever; and the new Kidde Worry-Free Smoke Alarm, significantly increasing fire safety in homes and reducing maintenance with a 10-year, sealed-in battery. UTC Climate, Controls & Security also strengthened its emerging market presence by increasing product localization, expanding its distribution footprint and establishing joint ventures in key markets. Highlighting this approach was the new joint venture in India with Midea and the opening of a new India manufacturing facility to take advantage of that nation¡¯s fast-growing residential air-conditioning market.

As always, United Technologies¡¯ performance over the past year reflects the dedication and hard work of our leadership team and our nearly 220,000 employees around the world. On behalf of our shareowners, I thank all employees for their many contributions, and in particular, I want to recognize the 27,000 Goodrich employees who joined UTC this past July for their willingness to embrace change. The talent, skills and teamwork displayed during the integration process have been truly extraordinary, setting the stage for a bright new chapter for our company.

I also thank our customers. We are grateful for the confidence and trust they place in our products and our people. We recognize customers have choices, and how we perform determines whether they choose us. We are committed to delivering the very best value to our customers by finding better, faster and more efficient ways to support their success. 

In closing, I am proud of what United Technologies accomplished over the past year and excited about the momentum we have created. The entire team is now focused on integrating, executing and accelerating our performance to deliver UTC-style earnings growth well into the future. 

----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- United Technologies 2013

DEAR SHAREOWNER

United Technologies delivered another strong performance in 2013, with double-digit earnings growth despite a weaker-than-expected economic recovery. The success of our portfolio transformation and our continued investments in game-changing technologies position us to accelerate growth, as does our ability to leverage our global scale to provide innovative solutions in our core aerospace and building systems markets. Our focused portfolio, combined with our relentless drive to reduce costs and increase productivity, set a strong foundation for delivering long-term shareowner value.

Across the company, there were many notable accomplishments in 2013. Among them was the successful integration of Goodrich and International Aero Engines. These transformational acquisitions are delivering better than-expected results and have greatly improved our position in the high-growth commercial aerospace market. On the commercial side, Otis resumed organic growth and had a number of significant emerging market wins, including the Hyderabad Metro Rail Project, India¡¯s largest single elevator and escalator contract ever; and the Goldin Finance 117 tower in Tianjin, China, which will feature the world¡¯s longest single elevator hoistway.

UTC Climate, Controls & Security achieved its margin target two years ahead of schedule, unlocking synergies from the combination of Carrier and UTC Fire & Security. Notable CCS wins included the contract to provide security and access controls for the second phase of Galaxy Macau, one of Asia¡¯s most popular resorts; fire protection systems for the Wuxi Metro Line in China¡¯s Jiangsu Province; building monitoring and control systems for Intergate Manhattan in New York City, the world¡¯s tallest data center; and energy-efficient HVAC systems and advanced CCTV and access control solutions for the new Midfield Concourse development at Hong Kong International Airport.

In 2013, we announced a tremendous new growth platform with the creation of UTC Building & Industrial Systems, combining Otis and UTC Climate, Controls & Security. This new organizational structure better positions us to capitalize on urbanization in emerging markets, where customers need customized, energy-efficient solutions incorporating multiple building systems and services. 

We are also realizing the benefits of the UTC Propulsion & Aerospace Systems structure announced in 2011, bringing together Pratt & Whitney and UTC Aerospace Systems to support customer demand for more integrated solutions. For example, Embraer selected UTC to provide a fully integrated propulsion system ? engines, nacelles and controls ? for its new E-Jet aircraft family. UTC Aerospace Systems was also selected as the sole provider of the E-Jet¡¯s wheels, brakes and electrical system. These wins demonstrate the value of the Goodrich acquisition and highlight our potential to secure even greater content on new aircraft.

Sikorsky¡¯s investment in X2 technology paved the way for its agreement with Boeing to pursue the Joint Multi-Role helicopter, the U.S. Army¡¯s next-generation utility and attack helicopter program. Also positioning Sikorsky for growth is strong demand for its S-76D and S-92 helicopters, which have the range and capabilities to support offshore oil and gas exploration around the world.

Along with the company¡¯s strong operating performance came solid cash generation, as cash flow from operations less capital expenditures again exceeded net income. As promised, we resumed our share repurchase program in 2013, buying back $1.2 billion of shares and bringing total share repurchase since 2007 to $12 billion. 

In 2013, we increased our dividend by 10.3 percent and marked the 77th consecutive year of dividend payments to shareowners. United Technologies¡¯ long-term total shareowner return continues to exceed that of our peers and key market indices. For the decade ending December 31, 2013, UTC delivered total shareowner return of 197 percent, almost twice that of the Dow Jones Industrials or S&P 500 index.

Looking ahead, United Technologies¡¯ growth opportunities are truly remarkable, driven by two powerful megatrends: urbanization and the rapid growth in commercial aviation. Across emerging markets, tens of millions of people are moving to urban centers every year, driving demand for more efficient elevators, air conditioning, and fire and security systems, as well as for a modern cold chain to support sustainable growth. Urban growth is also increasing demand for commercial aviation to connect cities in commerce and provide recreational travel opportunities for a growing middle class.

United Technologies is well positioned to capitalize on these opportunities as a result of investments in game-changing technologies such as Pratt & Whitney¡¯s revolutionary PurePower Geared Turbofan engine. With more than 5,300 orders and commitments, including options, our customers have embraced this technology and the significant improvements in fuel burn and lower emissions it delivers. By substantially reducing an aircraft¡¯s noise footprint ? in some cases by 75 percent ? the PurePower engine will allow airlines to add flights and use more direct routes into congested airports while improving the quality of life in neighboring communities.

Across the company, we¡¯ve focused R&D investments to address local market needs, deliver value to customers and convert to top-line growth. Recent examples include the advanced systems UTC Aerospace Systems is providing for the new Airbus A350 XWB; Carrier¡¯s expansion of the WeatherExpert line of commercial rooftop units with industry-leading efficiency and lower costs of ownership; Kidde¡¯s introduction of the Worry-Free carbon monoxide alarm with a 10-year lithium battery; and Otis¡¯ Gen2 Switch elevator with a battery backup system for the South Asian and European markets.

UTC¡¯s performance over the past year reflects the dedication and hard work of UTC¡¯s leadership team and our 212,000 employees. When I meet with UTC employees around the world, I am always impressed by their passion, commitment and creativity. On behalf of our shareowners, I thank our employees for their many contributions and for making UTC such an amazing company. 

I also want to thank our customers for the confidence and trust they have placed in United Technologies. We recognize that our customers have choices, and how we perform determines whether they choose us. At UTC, we work tirelessly to ensure our customers¡¯ success, providing the most advanced, reliable and efficient solutions at the best value.

In closing, 2013 was a year of many accomplishments, all achieved with a complete commitment to the highest ethical, legal, environmental and safety standards. By focusing on integration and execution, UTC delivered strong results and positioned the company for longterm sustainable growth. As we look to the future, we are confident we have the right portfolio, strategy and leadership team to deliver customer and shareowner value for decades to come.

----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- United Technologies 2014

DEAR SHAREOWNER

It is an honor to write to you for the first time as United Technologies¡¯ President and Chief Executive Officer, and I am extremely proud and excited to lead this exceptional company.

Having served in a number of roles since joining UTC more than 25 years ago, including most recently as Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer since 2008, I know our company well. Looking to the future, I¡¯m confident our global scale, industry-leading franchises, world-class technologies, strong leadership team and talented workforce position us for continued success. At UTC, we are committed to creating shareowner value for the long term by delivering innovative, cost-effective and value-creating products and solutions for our customers around the globe and by the disciplined deployment of our shareowners¡¯ capital.

As one of the world¡¯s largest providers of high-technology building and aerospace products and systems, we are extremely well positioned to deliver sustainable growth. Urbanization and an expanding global middle-class population are driving rapid growth in the global construction and building industry, creating demand for elevators, air conditioning, and fire and security systems offered by our UTC Building & Industrial Systems businesses. By the end of this decade, the addressable market for our commercial businesses is expected to increase more than 30 percent, from $160 billion today to $210 billion. With our global scale and market-leading brands, including Otis, Carrier, Chubb and Kidde, UTC is uniquely positioned to offer the smart technologies and more integrated solutions needed for tomorrow¡¯s sustainable cities and urban areas.
Projected growth in commercial aircraft deliveries and revenue passenger miles present a tremendous opportunity for our Pratt & Whitney and UTC Aerospace Systems businesses. With more than 6,200 orders to date, including options, for the Geared Turbofan (GTF) engine, Pratt & Whitney has significantly expanded its share in the fast-growing singleaisle and regional aircraft segments. We have also expanded our share in the large business jet segment with the new PW800 engine, built on the core GTF technology. The GTF¡¯s substantial improvements in fuel burn, noise reduction and emissions have revolutionized the commercial aerospace industry and demonstrate both our technology leadership and the value of our long-term investment strategy. Including the new family of GTF engines, we have more than 50 engine and aerospace systems entering service over the next few years, collectively representing more than $900 billion of potential future sales over the life of these programs.

Sikorsky has also positioned itself for future growth with a remarkable 2014 that resulted in a record backlog. It won all of its major strategic competitions, including contracts to develop the next generation of Marine One presidential helicopters, the U.S. Air Force¡¯s new Combat Rescue Helicopter, and one of the Army¡¯s Joint Multi-Role Technology Demonstrator air vehicles. It also won major international campaigns, including contracts for the Turkish Utility Helicopter Program and selection by the Indian Navy. 

We will continue to review our portfolio aggressively, pursuing opportunities and investments that add scale to our core businesses in high-growth, high-margin end markets with significant recurring revenues, thereby creating sustainable shareowner value. We also will continue to fully leverage our combined capabilities in engineering, operations and supply chain to develop game-changing products that deliver superior value to our customers and shareowners. 

In closing, I want to recognize and thank our incredibly talented employees. With the passion, commitment and creativity of my 211,000 colleagues around the world, I¡¯m confident in UTC¡¯s future and proud to have the opportunity to build upon our company¡¯s impressive legacy.
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ Caterpillar 2005

Over the  past  several  decades, however,  society  has  become increasingly aware  that  we cannot continue to develop  ¡°as usual¡±  if we are to improve standards of living. Global population is burgeoning ? increasing six fold over the  last  two centuries and doubling since  1960. It reached 6.5  billion in 2005 and is expected to grow to 9.1  billion by 2050.
This growth, combined with an ever-increasing appetite for resources, has  placed  enormous  pressures on our planet. We are now using  up natural  resources and  straining  ecosystems faster than their ability to recover. According to the Millennium Ecosystem  Assessment,  a United  Nations-sponsored study completed in 2005 by large international teams  of scientists, humans have changed ecosystems more rapidly and extensively over the  last  50  years than  in any comparable time  in human  history.  As a result, two-thirds  of the  world¡¯s ecosystems are now being  degraded or used  unsustainably.  Even  with  this consumption, however, more than  a billion people  worldwide still live in extreme  poverty.

In response,  society must alter its approach  so that resources  and  capacities are  available  for people  tomorrow  as  well as today.  This is sustainable  development, de?ned by a United  Nations  commission1  as  ¡°meeting the  needs of the  present without compromising  the ability of future  generations to meet  their own needs.¡± In addition  to protecting  our planet¡¯s ecosys- tems, this  type  of development can  lead  to  a reduction in poverty by providing  the  kind of economic growth that  offers opportunities for all.
Reaching  such a state  is a journey. Its challenges are many, and the quest  will be never ending.  In our business speci?cally, issues  of energy ef?ciency,  climate  change,  product  use, safety and open markets ? just to name a few ? affect Caterpillar, our dealers and  our customers every day.  Addressing  these and other  issues  may require  signi?cant remodeling  of the  world¡¯s traditional ideas  and methods of development. It certainly  will require the application  of new technologies, most of which have yet to be invented. Most of all, it will require  teamwork among a disparate set  of partners ? including business, academia, government, non-governmental organizations and  others.

A LEGACY  OF  PROGRESS
Yet this  is the  reality of today¡¯s world. We all, individuals  and businesses alike,  face  real  constraints and  dif?cult  choices
? but  these  choices  bring opportunity. Caterpillar  recognizes  that the development  we enable must be done in a more ef?cient and environmentally  sensitive  manner, and we are encouraged by the  progress  we have made  in this  area  over the  years ? in our operations, in our communities and through  our products, services  and  solutions. For example:

>     Our products and  services  are  used  around  the  world to provide access  to clean water and reliable power. They make available  the  raw materials on which society  depends and help  to improve quality  of life by building  roads,  airports,  schools,  hospitals and  homes.

>     Our facilities and  dealers play key economic and  social roles, providing good jobs, skill-enhancing opportunities and charitable support  in communities around  the world.

>     Our people  have made  signi?cant strides  to reduce  emis- sions  from  products and  operations, expand  reuse  and

remanufacturing of products, develop new technologies and processes and educate customers  on the safest,  most ef?cient ways to operate  equipment.

>     Our environmental, ?nancial and  social  performance has steadily improved over the years. Beginning in 2001, we have been  named  to the  Dow Jones  Sustainability World Index ?ve straight  times.

A COMMITMENT  FOR  THE FUTURE
Certainly, there  is much  more we can and plan to do. In 2005, we identi?ed sustainable development as a ¡°strategic area  of improvement¡± in  our  new  enterprise strategy.  This  was  an important step.  While a focus  on sustainability exists in many of our global businesses today, it must  become  an enterprise- wide commitment with experiences, successes and  behaviors  replicated across  our  organization. We must  establish and communicate ¡°bold  goal¡± targets  to drive the  right behaviors.  We must engage in dialogue with our stakeholders, tackle tough issues and  pursue the  business opportunities sustainable development presents.

Therefore,  we are  developing  a comprehensive,  coherent strategy  and  dedicated staff  to focus  on sustainable develop- ment  as we design  our products, run our operations and  work with our customers and communities. We are setting  aggressive goals  and  publicly  challenging ourselves  to meet  them. Key elements of our strategy  will include:

>     Education for all employees  and  more speci?c  training  for key managers

>     Metrics  and  goals established for each  Caterpillar  facility related  to safety,  energy,  material  conservation, emissions and  water consumption

>     Metrics  and  goals developed  by Caterpillar  business units  related  to driving pro?table  growth generated by products and  solutions  supporting sustainable development

>     Development of processes to support  innovation and collab- oration with universities  and research  institutions, leveraging expertise  beyond our organization

>     Working with existing  and  new customers, our worldwide dealer  network and  various industry  groups  to understand their needs  and  develop solutions  to address them

>     Continued  engagement with the  world outside  Caterpillar,  building  on the relationships we¡¯ve established in creating  this  report  (In an effort  to encourage  such  engagement, I accepted an invitation to join the board of directors of the World Resources Institute in 2006.)

By applying the discipline  of 6 Sigma2  and allowing sustain-  able development  to drive our work ? fueling creativity, innovation and ef?ciency ? Caterpillar can better meet the needs of existing and future customers, differentiate ourselves from the competition  and  drive pro?table  growth.

NO SIMPLE SOLUTIONS, ONLY INTELLIGENT  CHOICES
That said,  we do not take  lightly the  challenges we face.  In a series  of public  messages in the 1970s, we argued  that  ¡°there  are no simple  solutions, only intelligent choices.¡± That state-  ment  is even more true today. The issues  we face are complex and dif?cult, requiring decision-making based  on facts and data and bene?ting from the perspectives of multiple  stakeholders. In this report, we discuss  our progress toward addressing some of these  issues. For others,  we acknowledge  that  we have not yet found the right answers and must  continue working to do so.
The challenges of sustainable development, for all of us, are likely to prove more dif?cult than any we have faced in the past.  But they are challenges  we must accept. We owe it to our children,  our grandchildren and generations  to come to put our creativity, experience and industry leadership  position to work for the good of this  planet we all share. I am  con?dent that  Caterpillar  people ? together  with our dealers,  customers and other stake- holders ? can  make  the  intelligent choices  that  will drive the growth  of our business  and  help  create a more  sustainable world. I am excited  by the possibilities. I hope you are as well.


Jim Owens, Chairman  and  CEO
Caterpillar  Inc.
 
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Supplementary Information 

LIVING OUR  VALUES IN  ACTION
Our accomplishments and  commitments in this
report  find their  roots in our corporate  culture, now more  clearly  expressed  in Our Values  in Action, Caterpillar¡¯s Worldwide Code of Conduct. When we first issued  the Code in 1974, we were one  of the  first  companies to  do  so,  and  as we¡¯ve updated and enhanced the document  over t h e  y e a r s ,  i t  h a s  b e c o m e  o n e  o f  t h e  m o s t comprehensive of its kind. Our Values in Action is a practical guide  for how we conduct busi- n e s s  a n d  t r e a t  o n e  a n o t h e r,  p r o v i d i n g c l e a r guidelines on the  actions  we must  take ? and avoid ? as we put  our values of integrity,  excellence,  teamwork  and  commitment into  action.  Living these  values  is fundamental to running a sustainable enterprise.
One way we help  all employees  learn to put our values  into action  daily is through  a yearly awareness and  understanding assessment.  It i n c l u d e s  a  s e r i e s  o f r e a l - l i f e  s c e n a r i o s  t h a t require  employees  to select  the  right action  or response based on our values  and behaviors. This required  learning  helps  ensure  employees  u n d e r s t a n d  h o w w e  c o n d u c t  b u s i n e s s  a n d provides our stakeholders with greater  assurance that  Caterpillar people  are acting  in accordance with our values.
In 2004, the assessment was offered in English and French,  and approximately 21,000 employees (30  percent of our workforce)  participated. In
2 0 0 5 ,  w e  o f f e r e d  t h e  a s s e s s m e n t  i n  s e v e n languages, with 30,000 employees  (40  percent o f o u r w o r k f o r c e ) t a k i n g  p a r t .  I n  2 0 0 6 ,  t h e assessment is available  in 14  languages with a target  of 100 percent employee  participation.
You can  view a PDF of Our Values in Action o n  w w w.c a t.c o m.  C h o o s e  ¡°A b o u t  C a t ,¡±  t h e n ¡°Corporate  Overview.¡±

------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ Caterpillar 2006

The Business of sustainable Development
Customers have long turned to Caterpillar for machines and engines that do the world¡¯s work?productively, efficiently and cost effectively. More and more, they¡¯re also looking to us for solutions to lower emis- sions, use energy and fuels more efficiently and operate with less environmental impact. Providing such solutions is a growing business. Consider these examples:

>    We invested more than $2 billion over the last 10 years developing cleaner products, including ACERTþë Technology and SoLoNOx¢â? solutions that dramatically reduce diesel engine and gas turbine emissions while meeting customer expectations for durability, fuel efficiency and performance. As a result, we retain our leadership positions in important industries.
>    We grew our remanufacturing business 67 percent between 2001  and 2006?educating customers, governments and policymakers to help remove barriers and expand the market for this advanced recycling process.  We are a leader in this $100  billion global industr y that conser ves nonrenewable resources and provides cost-effective repair options for customers.
>    We continue to work with governments to promote the use of alternative  fuels  such as landfill gas, coal seam methane and digester gas for distributed power generation. About 5 percent of our Solar þë                                                                                                          gas turbines, for example, currently operate on gases such as these, which are often wasted and potentially harmful. Increasing our ability to convert these gases into clean energy not only reduces greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions, but also represents a significant opportunity for growth.

These are just three examples of how we¡¯re applying technology to turn existing problems into business solutions. Our work is proof that supporting sustainable development can create value for our custom- ers, investors and environment. Certainly, we haven¡¯t identified all possible solutions?or opportunities?but we are moving our business strategies toward sustainable development. First, we¡¯re improving the energy efficiency, increasing the remanufacturability and reducing the
negative environmental impact of our products and services. Second,
we¡¯re expanding and creating new markets for our products and ser vices by supporting incentives for technology development and deployment. And third, we¡¯re working with customers and other stakeholders  to share technologies and best practices. You¡¯ll see examples of each strategy in action in this report.

The Challenge of climate change
The issue of GHG emissions is one significant area in which our core businesses  and the challenges of sustainable development merge. We believe we can best serve our stakeholders by providing solutions such as energy-efficient products and technologies and by finding policy solutions that both support sustainability and meet the needs of our customers. As a major partner with the coal mining and oil and gas industries, for example, we have a tremendous interest in securing the long-term viability of these energy sources. We believe much of the world ¡¯s progress and prosperity depends on maintaining these fuels as safe, secure, reliable and low-carbon-emissions sources  of energy. Similarly, clean diesel engines and combined heat and power applications are critical technologies that can significantly enhance energy  efficiency and should be included as solutions to address climate change.
To encourage reasonable yet environmentally effective standards in these and other industries, Caterpillar is actively engaged in supporting public policies that reduce GHG emissions and promote market- based approaches to climate change initiatives. As a member of the U.S. Climate Action Partnership (USCAP), we are calling on U.S. policymakers to establish a mandatory emissions reduction program to address climate change?specifically, a federal approach that¡¯s well integrated into a harmonized global system of GHG emissions-reduction initiatives and avoids local or regional development of separate paths. We support emissions standards based on thorough, peer-reviewed science that allow industry and public input. We seek fair and flexible approaches  to these standards, as well as incentives for new technology and early action. We join the members of USCAP in urging the U.S. Congress to specify a target zone aimed at reducing emissions 60 to 80 percent by 2050.

Ultimately,  the goals  of reduced  GHG emissions  and economic growth are not mutually  exclusive.  We believe  addressing  climate change will provide more opportunities for industry and the economy. That¡¯s why a market-based approach that encourages innovation, both in the discover y of new energy sources and in the development of new technologies  to improve  the use of existing  resources,  is  so important. Governments will implement the policies and regulations, but business will provide the solutions?and Caterpillar is committed to being at the forefront.

Our Sustainable Development Journey
Last year, we published our first sustainability report. I  know some readers were surprised to learn that Caterpillar is pursuing sustainable development as a business?and even more surprised to discover all we¡¯ve been doing in this area over the years. For us, the process of producing  our first  report was a significant  learning  experience.  It showed us the importance of having an ¡°outside-in¡± perspective, being less internally focused and more globally and strategically relevant. It also helped us see clearly the many challenges we face and the critical need to embed the pursuit of sustainable development across our organization.
In 2005, when we introduced our enterprise strategy, we identified sustainable development as a ¡°strategic area of improvement¡±?an area that requires enterprise-wide focus and commonality to achieve our goals. I believe our organization as a whole is increasing its understanding of the principles of sustainable development. As expected, some indi- vidual business units are struggling to understand how to apply these principles. In addition, we made a conscious decision to focus our efforts in 2006 on participating in the development of policy principles for U.S. federal-level GHG emissions-reduction efforts and engaging some of our largest customers to better understand their sustainable development needs. As a result, we did not make as much progress as originally planned on other, internal sustainable development initiatives. In the months and years ahead, however, we are committed to helping every employee understand the complexity of sustainable development?and helping every business unit translate that understanding into growing, profitable business models.
We have made progress in achieving the targets established in last year¡¯s report. I am both encouraged by that progress and aware that we still have much to do. We know that enabling sustainable develop- ment is an ongoing journey, and we¡¯re focused on being a leader on this front. We have real contributions to make ? contributions that over the long term will benefit our business, our customers and our investors and help to create a more sustainable world. Our journey continues.

Jim Owens, Chairman and CEO
Caterpillar Inc
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Supplementary Information 

The challenges and opportunities are endless.
Caterpillar customers operate in industries?infrastructure development, mining, energy, forestry, transportation and others?that are at the heart of many of the world¡¯s sustainable development challenges. Every day, Caterpillar people look for opportunities to apply our expertise and technology to address these issues. We work to provide solutions that make our customers¡¯ businesses more viable. And we strive to make the intelligent choices that will allow both our company and our planet to prosper. Ultimately, we believe the sustainability of our world and the sustainability of our business are inseparable.

ÀÌ ºÎºÐÀº º°·Î Áß¿äÇÒ °Í °°Áö ¾ÊÀºµ¥¡¦ 
A DV ISORS
Our thanks to the advisory council of experts who provided input and guidance. Their inclusion on this list merely indicates they provided feedback and in no way implies they endorse the contents of this report.

Luke Danielson Attorney and Researcher International Center for Law and Development

George C. Eads Vice President CRA International

Keister Evans
Executive Director
Tropical Forest Foundation

Margaret Flaherty
Managing Director
World Business Council for
Sustainable Development

Bradley  Googins
Executive Director
Boston College Center for
Corporate Citizenship

Stephanie Hanford
President
Connectivity Consulting, LLC

Stuart L. Hart
S.C. Johnson Chair in Sustainable
Global Enterprise
Johnson Graduate School of
Management, Cornell University

Calestous Juma
Professor of the Practice of International Development John F. Kennedy School of
Government, Harvard University

Fred Krupp President Environmental Defense

Thomas E. Lovejoy
President
Heinz Center for Science, Economics and the Environment

Geoff Lye
Vice Chairman
SustainAbility Ltd/Inc

Research Fellow
Green College, Oxford

Mark B. Milstein
Professor and Director
Center for Sustainable Global
Enterprise, Cornell University

William R. Moomaw Professor and Director, Inter- national Environmental Policy The Fletcher School,
Tufts University

Kevin Sweeney Independent Consultant Visiting Faculty
University of California, Berkeley

Michael  Tost Principal Advisor, Sustainable Development Communications & External Relations Department,
Rio Tinto plc

William A. Wallace
Past President
Engineers Without Borders ? USA

Durwood Zaelke
Partner
Zelle, Hofmann, Voelbel, Mason & Getty

------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ Caterpillar 2007
A MESSAGE FROM
OUR CHAIRMAN

To drive a transformation in our organization, building on years of hard  work  by Caterpillar people, we solidified our vision  of sustainable development and identified a more aggressive and comprehensive set of goals in 2007. Our vision is to contribute, through our diverse businesses, to a society in which people¡¯s basic needs are not only met  but fulfilled in a way that sustains the environment. Our goals establish 2020 targets for our operations and our products, services and solutions ? and, for the first time, include customer energy efficiency, material efficiency and safety.
These goals, shown below, are bold  aspirations for a company like ours, whose core  businesses intersect with some of the  world¡¯s biggest sustainable development issues. We must establish aggressive goals, however, because incremental improvements are  no  longer enough ? and  at Caterpillar, bold  goal-setting is the  best way  to drive  real and sustained progress. The time has  come for Team Caterpillar to think  differently, to question assumptions and  ask  ¡°what if?¡± as we  tackle the  challenges sustainable development presents.

ENERGY AND CLIMATE.
Climate change has  emerged as the  number one  environmental issue of our time. While many countries and  companies have taken steps to reduce carbon dioxide (CO2) and other greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions, overall  progress has  been limited and  technology development slow. The International Energy Agency predicts that  a ¡°business as usual¡± approach will result in dramatic increases in emissions over  the  next  few  decades. According to many scientists, however, CO2  emissions must peak by 2015 at the  latest ? and  drop  50  to 80  percent by 2050 
? to limit the  average increase in global  temperatures to a few degrees.
We must take  action now  or risk serious harm to our planet. But achieving the  necessary reductions in emissions will require dramatic, fundamental changes in the  world¡¯s transportation, electricity and  industrial sectors, as well as unprecedented technology development and deployment, and  public-private collaboration.
Society as a whole is struggling to address this issue. At Caterpillar, we¡¯re working with  customers and  industry groups to determine what reductions of this magnitude mean for the products we manufacture and  the markets we serve. One immediate challenge is continuing to reduce currently regulated emissions from our clean diesel engines to meet ever  stricter regulations. We¡¯ve  achieved near-zero particulate matter (PM) emissions in our on-highway engines and  now  will do the same for our machines and other non-road products ? at the same time bringing oxides of nitrogen (NOx) emissions to near-zero levels and ensuring our engines operate with increasing efficiency. Meeting this challenge has led to one  of the biggest new product introduction efforts in Caterpillar history. We¡¯re  moving rapidly  to meet increasingly stringent PM  and  NOx emissions requirements while  maintaining fuel efficiency. We¡¯re  also  building on our experience with biodiesel and the next generation of biofuels to reduce GHG emissions and  fossil fuel consumption.
Externally, we¡¯re stepping up our efforts to influence technology and policy development. In January 2007, we joined 12 other corporations and environmental groups to create the U.S.  Climate Action Partnership (USCAP).  Throughout the  year,  more than 20  additional organizations signed on to this initiative, which is pressing for the  establishment of a mandatory ¡°cap and trade¡± system that will put a price on carbon emissions and  drive significant reductions in an economically efficient manner.
We also hold a leadership role in the Council on Competitiveness¡¯ Energy Security, Innovation and  Sustainability Initiative  and  are active participants in the  U.K.-based Energy Technologies Institute, the  Asia- Pacific Partnership on Clean Development and Climate and other regional, national and international organizations. We will continue to stay engaged in the  years ahead ? not just to share expertise and  best practices, but  also to expose our people to different ideas and  new ways of thinking about economically-efficient, market-based solutions to energy and  climate change.

GROWTH AND TRADE.
Closely  tied to issues of energy and  climate are economic growth and  international trade. As the  December 2007 climate change talks  in Bali demonstrated, progress will be slow unless we eliminate the financial and  trade barriers preventing technology development and deployment. Nations must be able  to invest in much-needed emissions reduction solutions, either by applying their own technologies or acquiring those developed by others. At the same time, business must be allowed to sell technology on the  world  market. Without a global  exchange of capital and  ideas, there¡¯s little chance of tackling climate change on a global  scale.
The impact of growth and  trade extends beyond climate change to other key issues. In fact,  encouraging economic development that improves standards of living is the  first step to a sustainable future. Nations that  can  meet their  citizens¡¯ basic needs for food, shelter, healthcare, transportation and  communications are better positioned to address issues of environmental and  social sustainability.
Key to this economic growth is international trade and investment. According to the  World  Bank,  free  trade has  lifted 200  million people out of poverty in the last decade, the largest and  fastest reduction ever  recorded. Eliminating remaining trade barriers and farm subsidies could improve quality  of life for 300  million more individuals.
No government aid package or corporate philanthropy effort  can  have  this impact. Unfortunately, the  United States and  European Union maintain the  highest trade barriers against products imported from the  world¡¯s poorest countries, and  developed-world agricultural policies often undermine growth in developing nations. These practices must stop. We  must treat developing economies fairly and  give  all people the opportunity to flourish. As quality  of life around the  world  improves, more governments can  afford  to invest in promoting clean air, clean water and  responsible use  of natural resources ? and  more citizens  can  engage in the  global  economy as consumers of the  products and  services we provide.
For these reasons, Caterpillar has  long been a staunch advocate of free  trade and  global  engagement. Our  business  is  proof  that companies compete best in an open trading environment, and we have seen firsthand ? through our nearly  500  locations in 50  countries ? the benefits of increased trade in the  developing world. We will continue to  speak out  against  trade barriers  and  encourage governments worldwide to adopt trade policies that balance economic, environmental and  social concerns.

PEOPLE AND PLANET.
Through our products and  services, Caterpillar helps societies improve living standards for their people ? the first step in sustainable development. Through our operations, we also help people and communities acquire skills and  resources to maintain sustainable livelihoods. By providing meaningful employment, often with access to healthcare and educational opportunities, and by establishing consistent expectations for behavior, we enable people to make choices that  consider future implications ? decisions that  ultimately have a positive impact on their livelihoods, the communities in which they  live and  the  environment we share.
Caterpillar¡¯s values are at the foundation of our efforts to establish uniformly high levels of performance in our operations ? and  uniformly high expectations for our people ? around the world. Our Values in Action, Caterpillar¡¯s Worldwide Code  of Conduct, gives  each member of Team  Caterpillar clear  guidelines for working with  integrity and  honesty. It commits us  to diversity and  inclusion, employee health and  safety, environmental responsibility, community development and  continual learning ? including a redoubling of our efforts to educate employees about sustainable development.
Similarly, the Caterpillar Production System establishes consistent cultural, operating and management systems at our facilities worldwide. It empowers people at all levels  to make good decisions in their  daily work  and  to take  responsibility for creating a safe, positive workplace.
Throughout Caterpillar¡¯s 82-year history, we have  been successful in large part because of our focus on long-term versus short-term gains. We move carefully to measure the  effects of our actions on all stakeholders. We establish and maintain lasting relationships with customers, dealers, suppliers and communities. Through our operations, strategies, processes and  philanthropic efforts, we are committed to investing in people and  the  planet for the  long-term.

FURTHER AND FASTER.
Caterpillar¡¯s sustainable development journey began years ago, but  it publicly  took  shape with  the  release of our 2005 Sustainability Report. This report highlighted many of the  key issues we  face  and  explained what sustainable development means to our company. Last year¡¯s report went a step further, documenting strategies, progress and  challenges in four  key  areas of our  business: energy, materials, mobility and  infrastructure development.
This year,  our report examines the  interconnectedness of these business areas and  explores how  issues such as energy use, climate change, economic growth, free trade and sustainability intertwine. It docu- ments metrics for the  year  2020 that  will drive our performance. And it demonstrates how our products and services are improving performance worldwide across a number of dimensions of sustainability ? as well as how we are working to build capacity in developing nations and  foster process improvements in the  developed world. In short, our 2007 report aims to identify those areas where we have  an impact, demonstrate how  we engage stakeholders around these issues and  explain how  doing so will shape both our company and the marketplace.
Our thinking about sustainable development has evolved over the  past few years ? a credit to Caterpillar people, who continue to embrace the  challenges and  opportunities. Now  the  time  has  come to push ourselves further and faster. I know it can be done. More than a decade ago, we  faced the  challenge of reducing particulate matter emissions from our on-highway diesel engines by 90 percent, a task many thought was impossible. But our people, faced with  a seemingly unreachable goal, threw conventional thinking aside and developed new technology that delivered the  necessary reductions.
Likewise, struggling to improve our safety performance in 2000, we declared that all accidents and injuries are preventable, and therefore our goal for them must be zero. Another impossible goal? Perhaps. But establishing it has  created a ¡°zero  tolerance¡± mindset about injuries  at Caterpillar, and  the  results in just seven years have been dramatic.

We need this  type  of ¡°nothing is impossible¡± approach across our company ? in every facility, for every product line, throughout every service area. We  need all employees to challenge waste, eliminate inefficiencies and work to deepen their understanding of our true impact on the world  in which we live. Only then will we be able to provide the  products, services and solutions customers in a more sustainable world  demand  ? and at the  same time, ensure the  sustainability of our own business for all our stakeholders.

James W. Owens
Chairman and  CEO, Caterpillar Inc.






------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ Supplementary Informtion

How  will the  world¡¯s deepening understanding of sustainable development shape our business, and  how  will we in turn  contribute ? through our products, services and  solutions ? to a more sustainable world? These are the  fundamental questions Caterpillar is asking and  answering as we continue on our sustainable development journey. Today,  we are more informed and engaged than ever.  We recognize the  substantial business opportunities sustainable development presents and  better comprehend the  magnitude of the  challenges it entails. As our understanding grows, however, so does our realization that making development truly sustainable requires dramatic changes in how  society in general ? and
business in particular ? operates.

ENTERPRISE  GOALS TO 2020
2020 GOALS FOR PRODUCTS, SERVICES AND SOLUTIONS
Established in 2007, these aspirational, enterprise- wide  goals align our interests, market needs and  customer opportunities to provide a framework for action as we pursue sustainable development as a business. In setting these goals, we evaluated significant aspects and  impacts of our operations and  our customers¡¯ businesses. We then identified internal priorities related to performance within our operations, and  external priorities related to those aspects of our customers¡¯ businesses we may  impact through capabilities we provide to the marketplace. These goals ? relative to a 2006 base ? clarify our role and further drive a focus on sustainability in every  aspect and  sector of our business. In 2008, we will continue to articulate plans for the  measurement and  execution of performance against these goals.
Provide leadership in the  safety of people in, on and  around our products
Increase customer energy efficiency by 20%
Reduce customer greenhouse gas emissions by 20%
Increase customer material efficiency by 20%

2020 GOALS FOR OPERATIONS
Reduce recordable workplace injury rate  to 0.6  and lost-time case rate  due  to injury to 0.15
Increase energy efficiency by 25%
Reduce absolute greenhouse gas emissions from existing facilities by 25%
Use alternative / renewable sources to meet 20% of our energy needs
Send zero waste to landfills by reducing, reusing and  recycling waste
Hold water consumption flat
Design all new construction to meet Leadership in Energy and  Environmental Design (LEED) ? or comparable ? green building criteria

¡° Our vision is to contribute, through our diverse businesses, to a society in which people¡¯s basic needs are not only met  but fulfilled in a way that sustains the environment¡±


ÀÌ°Íµµ No needÀÌ°ÚÁÒ? 

ADVISORS
This report, our third annual, was created to help Caterpillar employees and  other stakeholders understand the  critical role our organization plays  in the  sustainable development of the  world. The following pages contain details about our strategies, accomplishments and  challenges, as well as metrics that  are driving, or will drive,  desired behaviors toward meaningful goals. We thank the  advisory council of experts (listed  below) who  provided input and  guidance, and  all the  Caterpillar employees who  contributed to our 2007 Sustainability Report.

LUKE DANIELSON Attorney and  Researcher; International Center for Law and  Development
GEORGE C. EADS Senior Consultant; CRA International KEISTER EVANS President; Tropical  Forest Foundation BRUCE M. EVERETT Professor; The Fletcher School,
Tufts University

MARGARET FLAHERTY Managing Director; World
Business Council  for Sustainable Development

BRADLEY GOOGINS Executive Director; Boston
College Center for Corporate Citizenship

STEPHANIE HANFORD President; Connectivity
Consulting, LLC

STUART L. HART S.C. Johnson Chair in Sustainable
Global Enterprise; Johnson Graduate
School of Management, Cornell University

CALESTOUS JUMA  Professor of the  Practice
of International Development; John F. Kennedy
School of Government, Harvard University

FRED KRUPP President; Environmental Defense

THOMAS E. LOVEJOY President; Heinz Center for
Science, Economics and  the  Environment

GEOFF LYE Vice Chairman; SustainAbility Ltd / Inc. Research Fellow,  Green College, Oxford

MARK B. MILSTEIN Professor and  Director; Center for
Sustainable Global Enterprise, Cornell University

WILLIAM R. MOOMAW Professor and  Director; International Environmental Policy, The Fletcher School, Tufts University

KEVIN SWEENEY Independent Consultant; Visiting
Faculty, University of California, Berkeley

ANDREW VICKERMAN Principal Advisor; Sustainable Development Communications & External Relations Department, Rio Tinto plc

WILLIAM A. WALLACE Past President and  Member of the  Governing Board; Engineers Without Borders ? USA

DURWOOD  ZAELKE Partner; Zelle, Hofmann, Voelbel,  Mason & Getty

------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ Caterpillar 2008
Letter from  our Chairman

Our water consumption dropped while our percent of recycled material
jumped to record highs (from 65 to 78 percent). Our total greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions  remained  nearly steady with an increase of just over one percent. As we met our initial environmental goals, we set aggressive aspirational goals for 2020. To that end, the Caterpillar Production  System is helping us eliminate  waste and deliver dramatic improvements in employee safety. We continue to invest in cleaner and more efficient products. And we increased our involvement in global policy advocacy.
Now the economic pendulum has swung in the other direction. Nearly every industry we serve is in economic crisis. With sales volumes declining, we¡¯ve been forced to cut spending,  reduce employment and scale back our investments in research and development.  These circumstances might tempt a detour in our sustainable  development  journey. But we believe the current  economic situation makes the pursuit  of sustainability even more important to our business.  Using energy, materials and water more efficiently, and reducing waste, creates both economic and environmental benefits. As just one example, this report will not be printed. This clearly provides an economic benefit, but there are certainly environmental benefits too.
Our customers?like consumers everywhere?are looking for more
value from Caterpillar¡¯s products and services. They want engines
that burn less (or different) fuel, machines  that work more productively and job sites that are more efficient. Some want to repair, rebuild and upgrade their current  equipment instead of buying new. Team Caterpillar has these solutions.
Sustainable development continues  to present a big opportunity for business  growth and profitability. In 2009, we¡¯ll strive to demonstrate this to our stakeholders.
In 2008, Team Caterpillar progressed  toward our aspirational goals. Our workplaces are safer than ever, with key safety metrics improving year over year. More than a third of our facilities had zero recordable injuries in 2008, a remarkable achievement in a year of record production  levels. New facilities are being designed to meet Leadership in Energy and Environmental  Design (LEED) criteria, and a pilot project is underway for our corporate headquarters in Peoria to gain the LEED silver standard for existing buildings.
In our facilities, energy efficiency continues  to be a focus. Record production  levels pushed  our GHG emissions  slightly higher.
Our aspirational goals in this area are aggressive?to increase energy efficiency by 25 percent, reduce absolute GHG emissions  by 25 percent and use alternative or renewable sources for 20 percent of our energy needs. We are persistently challenging ourselves to seek innovative ways to meet these goals.
We continue to work to help our customers  achieve their goals in the areas of material and energy efficiency, emissions  reductions  and job site safety. We¡¯re building on our existing portfolio of products and services?Cat Reman, clean diesel engines, retrofit solutions for older machines and engines, advanced safety features and our ability to convert waste gases into clean, useful energy?and continue to invest in research and technology to develop new, sustainable  solutions.
For example:

New products
We unveiled our AC electric drive mining  trucks at MINExpo 2008 and introduced  our new Cat D7E electric-drive track-type tractor?the first of its kind?at CONEXPO/CON-AGG 2008. When it becomes commercially available in 2009, the Cat D7E will burn less fuel per hour than other tractors, reducing emissions.  It will consume  fewer resources?parts and fluids in addition to fuel?over its working life, and move about 25 percent more material per gallon of fuel burned  when compared to conventional drive systems.

New solutions
We formed a new division in 2008 focused exclusively on electronics and connected worksite solutions. Featuring products like AccuGrade¢â machine  control and guidance systems and Product Link¢â fleet management tools, the technology brings together job site information, machine  data, operator stations and office functions  to help customers  improve operational efficiencies, reduce waste and drive down fuel consumption and emissions.

New alliances
We announced a groundbreaking alliance in 2008 with BHP Billiton, the world¡¯s largest diversified natural resources company. Together, we¡¯re developing an autonomous mining  haulage system that will minimize environmental impact, improve mine site efficiency and increase overall mine safety. We also formed a joint venture with Trimble, VirtualSite Solutions, to create information-rich worksites that enable customers  to manage their equipment fleets more efficiently and safely, reduce fuel consumption and lower operating costs.

Also during the year, we realigned our product and marketing  businesses along key customer industries:  mining,  excavation, earthmoving,  quarry and aggregates, and waste. Doing so enables us to get closer to those we serve?to better understand their needs and design solutions to address them. It will also allow us to customize solutions to meet specific industry needs.

That¡¯s our major focus for 2009 and beyond?continuing to make sustainable  progress possible for our customers. We¡¯ll also keep driving sustainability  into our internal  processes, particularly working with our New Product Introduction teams to ensure  that operator safety, environmental concerns and remanufacturability are priorities from the initial design all the way to field trials and production.
We¡¯ll remain active on the policy and legislative fronts as well.
We support a federal, market-based  GHG reduction policy in the United
States that will work in concert with international efforts to reduce global GHG emissions.  We believe coordinated global action is the only effective way to meet this challenge.
Ongoing research and development  (R&D) is key to solving energy- and climate-related challenges. Tackling these issues will be key to helping us emerge from the current  recession. It¡¯s imperative that governments include increased R&D funding in their economic stimulus packages. We stand ready, with industry leading technologies, to respond to the increase in sustainability initiatives likely to come from these efforts?everything from advances in clean coal technology and combined heat and power applications to the increased use of rail transport  and remanufacturing.
The depth and duration of the current economic crisis is still unknown.  Our first priority during these trying times is ensuring the long-term viability of our company. Fortunately for Team Caterpillar and all our stakeholders, the sustainability of our business  and the sustainability of the world economy are deeply intertwined.  That¡¯s why both can emerge even stronger from the current  recession.


James W. Owens
Chairman and CEO, Caterpillar Inc.

----------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Supplementary Information 

Over the past five years, in the face of strong global economic growth and unprecedented customer demand, Team Caterpillar remained steadfast in our commitment to sustainable  development. Even as our top-line sales and revenues grew by approximately 25 percent over the past two years, our environmental footprint showed improvements.

¡°That¡¯s our major focus for 2009 and beyond? continuing  to make sustainable  progress possible for our customers¡±

Advisors ºÎºÐÀÌ °è¼Ó ³ª¿À³×¿ä.. 

Advisors
Our thanks to the advisory  council  of experts who provided input and guidance. Inclusion  below  indicates  they provided feedback; it does not indicate  they endorse the contents of the report.

Luke Danielson
Attorney and Researcher International Center for Law and Development

George C. Eads Senior Consultant  CRA International

Keister Evans
President, Tropical Forest
Foundation

Bruce M. Everett Professor, The Fletcher School, Tufts University

Margaret Flaherty Senior Managing  Director  & Chief of Staff, World Business
Council for Sustainable
Development

Bradley Googins
Executive Director,
Boston College Center for
Corporate Citizenship

Stephanie Hanford-Hass President, Connectivity  Consulting, LLC

Stuart L. Hart
S.C. Johnson Chair in Sustainable Global Enterprise, Johnson Graduate School of Management, Cornell University

Calestous Juma Professor of the Practice of International Development,
John  F. Kennedy School of Government,
Harvard University

Thomas E. Lovejoy Biodiversity Chair, Heinz Center for Science, Economics and the Environment

Geoff Lye Research Fellow, Oxford University & Vice Chairman, SustainAbility Ltd/Inc

Mark B. Milstein Professor and Director, Center for Sustainable Global Enterprise, Cornell University

William R. Moomaw Professor and Director, Center for International Environment and Resource Policy,
The Fletcher School, Tufts University

Kevin Sweeney Writer  and Consultant  on Climate Change & Sustainability Issues

William A. Wallace Past President and Member of the Governing Board, Engineers Without Borders ? USA

------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ Caterpillar 2009

Chairman¡¯s Message

Products, Services and Solutions
In the next decade, the most successful companies will be those that integrate sustainability into their core businesses. That¡¯s what we¡¯re doing at Caterpillar, and we are also helping our customers do the same.

By bringing together technologies, services and solutions we can help
our customers respond to their unique business challenges. Whether their goal is to improve jobsite safety, to find beneficial uses for by-products and commodities, to increase material and energy efficiency or to reduce greenhouse gas emissions, Caterpillar can deliver.

Here¡¯s a great example. In December, we delivered the first Cat¢ç D7E Electric Drive Tractor to one of our customers. The sustainability  characteristics designed into this machine don¡¯t just benefit the environment; they have
a direct positive impact on our customers¡¯ bottom lines.

Customers will spend less on fuel, fluids, parts and maintenance over the lifetime  of the machine. And the Electric Drive system that enables these benefits also boosts machine productivity and efficiency. The D7E will help customers get more work done, in less time, and with reduced emissions and environmental impact.

Beyond new products, some of Caterpillar¡¯s fastest-growing businesses are those focused on the sustainability  of materials and resources such as Cat Remanufacturing Services, Cat Certified Rebuild and Progress Rail Services. By restoring used customer equipment to like-new condition, these businesses minimize waste while providing high-quality, cost-effective solutions for our customers.

Internal Solutions
Using our own resources more efficiently and effectively is where our sustainability journey began, and it will continue to be a focus for a couple of reasons.

First, it¡¯s good business. It helps us use fewer resources and saves us money. We have many areas where we are improving internally. For instance, our world headquarters building in Peoria has been certified ¡°Gold¡± by the U.S. Green Building Council¡¯s Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design-Existing Buildings (LEED-EB). This designation recognizes Caterpillar¡¯s leadership in energy management and waste, material
and water usage among other criteria. I¡¯m proud of this designation, and it¡¯s a great example of our commitment to sustainability.

Second, it brings out creativity from our employees. Team Caterpillar is excited about coming up with ideas to make our work more sustainable. Not only are these ideas in themselves extremely valuable, but they also help create a culture where employees are actively looking for ways to work better, more efficiently. This carries into every aspect of our business culture.

Just look at safety. Our goal is zero injuries. That¡¯s a bold goal ? an incredible stretch in 2003 ? that now seems entirely possible because of all the work we¡¯ve done.

In 2003, we introduced the Safety Strategic Improvement Project and got our entire team focused on safety. Since then we¡¯ve seen an 80 percent reduction in injuries. And in 2009, more than 40 percent of our facilities realized Caterpillar¡¯s vision of zero injuries.

We are continuing to build on our success and extend our efforts to include customers, dealers and contractors. Just this year, we introduced the Contractor Safety Program. New contractors will have to meet certain safety standards before we even consider working with them, and we are working with our current contractors to make sure they meet those safety standards as well. Everyone who walks through our doors should act safely ? for their own sake and for the safety of those around them.

Investment and Partnership
Sustainability  is a bit of a balancing act. We need clean, abundant, secure and competitively priced sources of energy. And we have to address environmental concerns. But we cannot undermine our economic well-being. That¡¯s why we have a responsibility to contribute constructively to the public debate on energy and environmental policies that affect our industries.

It will be businesses that create and implement solutions to the world¡¯s energy and environmental issues. Instead of placing heavy rules, regulations and expenses on businesses, we need to drive private sector investment in energy solutions. And we must start by having a transparent, long-term and global price on carbon emissions.

Next, we must set our domestic policies to work in concert with international efforts.

Climate and energy concerns are global issues. Each country has its own unique role to play, but we have to keep a level playing field. Our world is more interconnected than ever. And drastic variations in rules and regulations can drive huge disadvantages for businesses, industries and even nations. More importantly, air knows no boundaries; so coordinated global actions are the only effective ways to meet the world¡¯s environmental challenges.

Research, development and technology remain key to solving our energy and sustainability  challenges.

We all have an opportunity and responsibility to take sustainability  to the next level. Despite the many changes in the global economy since our last report, Caterpillar¡¯s commitment to sustainability  has not wavered. In fact, the economic downturn has helped secure sustainability¡¯s  place at the core of our strategy. It¡¯s not something extra that we do during good times. It¡¯s something that creates and captures value for the company, our customers, investors, employees, suppliers ? and really, the world. Caterpillar makes sustainable progress possible.

----------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Supplementary Information 

In the next decade, the most successful companies will be those that integrate sustainability into their core businesses.

Some of Caterpillar¡¯s fastest- growing businesses are those focused on the sustainability of materials and resources.
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ Caterpillar 2010

Chairman¡¯s Message

Powering Change

Empowering CusTomers

It¡¯s not every day you get to be part of something truly game changing and life altering. However, I would make the argument that Caterpillar people do just that every day.

Think about it. Our machines build roads and bridges that connect remote villages to resources they¡¯ve never had access to before. That¡¯s game changing.

Our power systems allow people to turn the lights on. We provide electricity in places that may never have had it before. That¡¯s life altering.

And when you think about it ? it¡¯s pretty exciting.

There is a whole world out there that desires electricity,  clean water, accessible roads and the overall infrastructure necessary to make a living and provide for families. As a global company, not only can we help provide these basic needs, but we can also do it in a way that can be maintained through generations.

The world¡¯s population is growing. The demand for energy is increasing, and progress and development will continue. And as exciting as that progress is, it certainly creates some challenges. Fortunately, we have the opportunity to be a part of meeting those challenges.

To me, Caterpillar¡¯s ties to sustainable development (SD) are clear. I always get questions about our SD efforts and how SD fits within our strategy. And I am always more than happy to give some answers!

Q.How does this fit in our strategy?
A. it¡¯s a perfect fit. our strategy is all about serving our customers. and our customers are asking us how we can help make them
more efficient and help them meet their sustainability challenges. That pull from customers is really all we need, but our people are
also pushing us. Caterpillar employees get really excited about making our products more sustainable and also making our own operations more efficient.

and guess what? one of the key groups on our strategy pyramid ? stockholders ? like sustainability, too. i¡¯ve yet to meet a stockholder that doesn¡¯t believe in investing for the future and providing superior products, services and solutions that meet our customers¡¯ needs.
and that¡¯s what we are doing when we deliver sustainable solutions to our customers.

Q.What are the costs of focusing on sD?
A. In the early days, when people talked about sD, we thought in terms of ¡°what¡¯s it going to cost us to save.¡± and it¡¯s true ? we¡¯ve made significant investments in technologies like emissions reductions. But when you start to think in a broader context, investing in sD is like any other investment for our future. and in some cases, it¡¯s a huge savings. making more fuel-efficient  machines saves our customers money on fuel. By eliminating waste from our facilities,  we don¡¯t have to pay to send the waste to the landfills. it¡¯s rare to think about sD efforts in terms only of cost anymore.

Q.What has been the most significant business development
in sustainability for Caterpillar in the past 12 months?
A.we have a couple of great examples, and one of my favorites is our pending acquisition of mwm. our ability to provide gas engine systems that run on natural gas, coal seam methane, landfill methane, biogas, biomass, coke oven gas ? you name it ? is a real opportunity. along with our traditional diesel and natural gas engines and turbines, we will have one of the broadest engine offerings in the industry and are, strategically, very well placed. on top of all that, we¡¯re expanding our mining business with our agreement to acquire Bucyrus international.  This enables us to better meet the needs of the world¡¯s mining community, which is extracting and processing vital natural resources. all of these things have a tremendous impact on our sustainability efforts.


Q. speaking of mining ? it¡¯s easy to see the sustainability benefits of certain power system applications, like converting landfill gas into clean, usable energy. But how can you help your mining customers be more sustainable?
A. it¡¯s true, the world has a limited number of resources, and we have to be as prudent as possible with mining the resources we¡¯ve got. That¡¯s how we can help. The world¡¯s demand for natural resources is increasing and our role is to help our mining customers harvest those resources in the most efficient way possible.
And we all have a role to play to ensure those resources are then used in the most efficient manner possible. That¡¯s why we always talk about conserving, reusing and recycling. That¡¯s one of the reasons why our business model works so well. no one in our industry can help custom- ers throughout the value chain in the manner that we do, from initial  product selection, through the end of useful life and rebirth through remanufacturing and rebuilding to start the cycle over again.

Q.When will Caterpillar  be done focusing on SD?
A.Never. SD will be with us forever. society is pushing us, and we are pushing society. and there will always be opportunities to do better and to do more.

Q. no one wants to harm the environment, so why is there debate on sD issues?
A.You¡¯ll notice that we don¡¯t say things like ¡°we are going green¡± or ¡°saving the planet.¡± instead we talk about sustainable development. Progress is going to happen. it needs to happen, and it should happen. we just need to do it in the best way possible, with the least impact on the planet. 

Individual situations are hardly ever black and white. i have a very another. There are always two sides to every story, and it is important to find a balance. The conversion of the jungle into farmland from a world view may seem devastating, but for the people in this south american region to survive ? to be sustainable ? they need arable farmland. That¡¯s why when we talk about sustainable development we often talk about three pillars ? economic, social and environmental. and to find success, we have to find a balance to all three.

Personal example. Years ago, i worked for Caterpillar in south america and spent some time fishing on the Paraguay river. it was in the middle of an amazing jungle. There was green everywhere ? so much plant and wildlife.  and it really made an impression on a young man from central illinois.

When i traveled back years later ? full of excitement to revisit the jungle
? it was very different. much of it had been cleared for farmland. i was disappointed, for sure, but i¡¯m just a visitor. The farmland is highly productive, and it¡¯s been great for the communities and the country. But is it great for the world? in some ways, one resource was traded for

Q.How will the big issues be resolved?
A. It¡¯s going to take cooperation from around the world. At Caterpillar, we will do our part. we are proud to do our part, but we can¡¯t do it alone. as a country, i think the united states is ready to do its part. we often follow the lead of the european union, which is certainly committed to high standards. But we need countries around the world working together to address the issues on a global scale.

We may never all agree completely, but the world is moving along. The demand for sustainable solutions is there. and Caterpillar will be part of the solution.

------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ Caterpillar 2011
Chairman¡¯s Message

Caterpillar On energy
I have never been more Committed to Sustainable development than i am today. i travel the world and See first hand how the world needs the products, Services and Solutions that Caterpillar provides. And i see a world population that iS Growing and modernizing. all of these things lead to the question, ¡°what does the world need?¡±

Ask 10 people what the world needs, and you¡¯ll probably get 10 different answers. at Caterpillar, we¡¯ve got quite a list of what the world needs ? freer trade, rational regulations, more energy, quality education, quality healthcare, clean water, modern infrastructure, improved standards of living around the globe, just to mention a few. I could talk on the importance of any of these subjects; but this year, i want to focus on energy. the world needs reliable, cleaner energy.

Some 2.7 billion people live without  access to adequate energy services. approximately 1.3 billion people, nearly one fifth of the global population, have no access to electricity  at all. it¡¯s hard to imagine. it¡¯s also within  our grasp to change. Given the abundant supplies of energy resources and the technology available today, there is no reason why we can¡¯t expand energy access to those who are living without it. in many cases, the biggest difference between a developing nation and a developed nation is access to electricity. Our challenge is how to extend that access in the most sustainable way possible.

We all have a role when it comes to energy. at Caterpillar, our role is clear and significant. we are a global manufacturer; and, as we build products, we use energy. We have to be as efficient in the use of this energy as possible. we employ efficiency programs like the Caterpillar production System to make the best use of energy in our production lines. Our logistics business strives to find the most efficient ways to get parts and components to facilities  around the world. we build new facilities  to efficient building standards. and we monitor energy use at our facilities  and take proactive steps to reduce energy waste.

We also work with customers who are focused on their own energy consumption and on providing the energy the world needs. As commu- nities, states or countries grow their economies and improve quality of life for citizens, they have to think about energy. Collectively, we all need to think more about sources and impacts of energy ? both production and consumption.

We are all on this planet together and need to be informed on the issues surrounding energy. Here¡¯s what we believe at Caterpillar:

? Energy sources need to be developed and used in an environmentally responsible manner. We use energy, and we have a responsibility to develop energy sources sustainably. Caterpillar is continually enhancing the efficiency of its equipment and improving product technologies. While the consumption of energy for our products is only a very small part of global energy consumption, it is a significant component of the business of our customers and, therefore, a key focus for us.

? There is no one single solution to providing globally abundant,  reliable, secure, clean and reasonably priced energy. We need all sources of energy, including alternatives/renewables like wind, solar, biomass, waste and used oil. But, we also need to develop traditional sources of energy, like nuclear, natural gas and coal. Nuclear is the lowest emitting base load energy source available today. Natural gas is the fastest-growing fuel, now accounting for approximately 23 percent of the world¡¯s energy consumption. And demand is growing. Coal is abundantly available and has the scale to meet the primary energy needs of the world¡¯s rising population and expected economic growth  over the next several decades. All energy sources have an impact on the planet. We need to work together to limit those impacts wherever possible.

? Caterpillar supports market-based, cost-efficient energy solutions to help meet the world¡¯s growing energy demands. We need energy policies and an atmosphere in which the best companies, experts, researchers, inventors and entrepreneurs have the freedom to inno- vate and the flexibility  and resources to develop cleaner, more secure energy ? and more of it. we need policies and flexible mechanisms that harness the marketplace to drive innovation, mobilize investment and allow the sharing of clean, efficient technologies.

? Access to affordable and dependable energy resources is critical  for energy security, economic prosperity and growing economies. Look at the world. Energy consumption is rising rapidly, driven by worldwide  population growth, swiftly  developing economies, improving global living standards and the burgeoning use of ever more energy-dependent technologies. the global demand for energy is expected to increase significantly over the next 20 years.

The energy challenges are great. And we all have a role in helping shape a future where everyone has access to affordable, clean energy. We take our responsibilities seriously in terms of our own operations and in helping our employees, communities and civic leaders under- stand our perspective in the energy debate; but that¡¯s only a small part of our interest in energy.

Energy is at the core of our business.

Caterpillar customers play a major role in satisfying the world¡¯s increasing demand for reliable energy sources and clean, more efficient energy use. And our business is all about serving our customers.

For decades, we¡¯ve been working with customers to use alternative fuels to power our reciprocating engines and gas turbines. and while it represents a small percentage of our sales today, we¡¯re working to grow that business every day. Within this year¡¯s report, you will read how we convert waste energy into clean, useful energy. Today, one of our largest businesses is mining. Mining is at the heart of much of today¡¯s traditional energy sources. we also supply the global oil and gas industries. We provide an entire suite of services to help customers extract energy resources more efficiently and enable more sustainable harvesting techniques.

We are also focused on energy used for transportation.  you¡¯ll  find industry-leading efficiency in Cat marine engines in many ocean-going vessels, and we are investing heavily in rail and locomotive power ? and re-power.

Caterpillar¡¯s role is clear. our customers are in the energy business, and we are working to find ways to help them provide the energy the world needs in a more sustainable manner. we are helping them succeed by helping them become more sustainable and efficient.



Doug Oberhelman
Chairman and Chief executive officer of Caterpillar inc.

----------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Supplementary Information 

Approximately 1.3 billion people, nearly one fifth of the global population, have no access to electricity at all. It¡¯s hard to imagine.

Caterpillar customers play a major role in satisfying the world¡¯s increasing demand for reliable  energy sources and clean, more efficient energy use. And our business is all about serving our customers.

