---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- BP 2012

Whenever I visit a BP site, I am struck by the wide range of people involved in, and affected by, what we do. From employees, partners and suppliers to governments, investors and those who live next to one of our facilities ? everyone has high expectations of this company. We must fulfil those expectations, and meet our range of responsibilities, as we work to create a stronger, safer BP.

Our responsibilities include helping to address the world¡¯s growing need for energy. Some 100 years ago society consumed energy at a rate of around two million tonnes of oil equivalent a day. Today the figure is closer to 32 million and we expect that could rise to as much as 45 million by 2030, if current trends continue.

Behind these big numbers you find a story of human progress. Reliable and affordable sources of energy can help to improve many things, from living standards to life expectancy. Around the world, a growing supply of energy is helping to lift people out of poverty and increase opportunity.

From safety comes trust

BP has an important contribution to make to the changing world I have just described. But we can only play our part if we start from the solid foundation of safe and reliable operations. Following the Deepwater Horizon incident, our employees have worked systematically to enhance safety and risk management. And we have turned the insights gained into new oil spill response plans and technologies, which we are adopting within BP and sharing with others.

As someone who has worked in the oil and gas industry for more than 30 years, I know that risk can never be entirely eliminated. But it can be managed effectively, and in increasingly sophisticated ways. The events of 2010 were a tragic reminder that trust can take years to earn and just moments to lose. I am determined this company will earn back and keep people¡¯s trust.

We continue to meet our commitments to the people of the Gulf states in the US. In 2012 we made the final payment into the $20-billion trust fund, of which $9.5 billion has been distributed to date. We continued to support environmental research, and provided funding for the local tourism industry, with many areas having record years in 2012. We reached settlements with the Department of Justice and the Securities and Exchange Commission, and are working with the Environmental Protection Agency to resolve suspension and debarment issues. As I write, legal proceedings are ongoing in New Orleans.

The Gulf of Mexico is very important to BP. Our commitment to the restoration of affected areas and long-term investment in the region will continue.

Working around the world

Wherever we operate around the world, BP keeps working to develop strong relationships with governments and local communities. The socio-economic development, environment and other issues covered in this review are important to BP and to me personally. They are essential in determining whether people trust BP to operate in their area.

2012 marked a significant change to our relationships in Russia when we agreed to sell our 50% shareholding in TNK-BP to Rosneft, and take our holding in Rosneft to 19.75%. On completion, the transaction will enable us to maintain a strong position in the world¡¯s largest oil and gas producing country. We aim to share our expertise with the Rosneft team as they work to transform the company¡¯s asset base, management processes and corporate governance.

I would like to reflect, with great sadness, on the terrible events that took place at the In Amenas joint venture facility in Algeria in January 2013. Our thoughts are with the families and friends of those who lost their lives in the attack. We are working with government agencies and others to determine what can be learned from this shocking incident.

Making choices for BP

We have made many changes to what we do and how we do it, turning lessons learned into action. We have reorganized and refocused. The sale of $38 billion of assets is helping us to reduce complexity and risk, and concentrate investment on our areas of distinctive strength. And we have set a new direction for the company based on a clear strategy. 

Our aim is to keep building a BP that is well matched to the world¡¯s evolving energy needs. Collaboration and systematic rigour will be increasingly important as we tackle the tough technical, environmental and social challenges ahead in areas such as deep water, giant fields and unconventional gas. In unconventional gas, for example, hydraulic fracturing can provide a safe and secure source of energy if undertaken in the right way.

Along with providing much needed energy today, BP is helping to address longer-term issues related to energy use. For example, we apply a carbon price to some of our new projects, and require existing operations to consider and implement cost-effective efficiency measures. We inform debate by conducting analysis and supporting research. We invest in biofuels and wind because we think they can play an important role in the diverse energy mix required.

Informing the big decisions

Just as BP is taking important decisions about its strategic priorities, so the wider world must make choices about future energy supply and use. How should a growing demand for energy be balanced with the need to address rising greenhouse gas emissions? Is there the necessary political will to set a universal price for carbon? Will the research, development and deployment of important lower-carbon energy technologies be given adequate support? These and other questions must be considered as governments, business, non-governmental organizations and the public work together to set the right direction.

There are no easy answers and there is unlikely to be agreement on all sides on every point, but it is essential that our debates and decisions are based on a deep understanding of the issues involved, not sentiment. This is why, for example, BP is funding the Energy Sustainability Challenge, a consortium of academics that is analysing the complex relationships between energy and natural resources. Energy literacy is the key to making the right choices for the future.

Moving forward

I believe a stronger and safer BP can make a vital contribution to growth and progress as the world develops over the coming decades. There is plenty to do, as we work on our priorities of enhancing safety and risk management, earning back trust and creating value. We intend to play a positive role in shaping the long-term future of energy. This Sustainability Review is part of a wider commitment to engage with the world on what we do and how we do it. We aspire to communicate openly about our responsibilities, our actions and our perspectives on global energy issues as we move forward.

---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- BP 2013

Within BP, 2013 will sadly be remembered for the terrorist attack in Algeria in January, when four staff members and 36 colleagues from other companies were killed. Those who died had many friends in BP and our thoughts remain with their loved ones, as well as with those who survived that terrible ordeal. I was proud of the way that people in BP responded with great compassion, but also with great fortitude. 

In Algeria and around the world, we have an important role to play in finding and delivering much needed resources of oil and gas to meet the growing energy demand. It is vital we conduct our operations in a safe and responsible way. But what does ¡®safe and responsible¡¯ mean in practice? Here are a few examples.

In Papua, we are consulting widely with local groups who may be affected by the planned expansion of our gas facilities at Tangguh. We have held public consultation meetings in over 60 villages and have involved elected community leaders in the hearings that will determine how the facilities are developed.

In the Gulf of Mexico, we are supporting environmental restoration efforts after the 2010 oil spill and paying all legitimate claims for compensation, while getting back to work on our 10 offshore rigs and production facilities. We are also representing the interests of our shareholders and staff by rightly challenging claims that we believe to be unfounded.

In China, we are working to reduce the impact of petrochemicals manufacturing on water resources. Our latest PTA plant in Zhuhai uses a recycling technique ? developed by BP ? that reduces water discharge by 75%. Meanwhile, in the Middle East we are partnering with Harvard University to help better plan how we access and use water at our facilities.

That last example underlines that we don¡¯t work alone. In fact, close collaboration with others is becoming ever more important as the scale and complexity of energy challenges multiply.

Take offshore drilling and safety. In 2013 we worked with regulators in Azerbaijan, Brazil and Libya on oil spill response planning. This included sharing what we have learned about dispersants and many forms of logistics.

2013 also saw us enter into a new partnership in Russia with Rosneft, and we can already see enormous potential for collaboration between the two companies. I believe BP¡¯s experience, capabilities and influence will prove valuable over the coming years as Russia looks to develop more of its vast resources safely and securely.

There is one thing that we can rely on about the future ? it will surprise us. The shale gas revolution in the US shows just how fast the energy landscape can change. Thanks to technological innovation, access to this lower-carbon resource has not only led to increased gas and oil production, lower energy prices and new jobs, but also to lower greenhouse gas emissions as gas has replaced coal in power generation. 

The lower carbon option became the lower cost option ? demonstrating the power of market forces to reduce emissions when the conditions are right. This example is instructive as the world seeks to achieve the right balance between the affordability, security and sustainability of energy supplies. 

Open and well-informed discussion ? between governments, business, academic bodies, non-governmental organizations and the public ? is vital as priorities are debated and solutions developed. And BP plays its part in this discussion, particularly in encouraging governments to apply a carbon price. This would level the playing field by incentivizing the production and use of lower-carbon options.

These are just a handful of examples of the actions we are taking to conduct our operations in a safe and responsible way. This Sustainability Review ? together with bp.com/sustainability ? is part of our commitment to report clearly on what we do and the effect our actions have. I believe it shows that BP aims to make a positive contribution to the world for many years to come.

---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- BP 2014

At BP we regularly pass milestones that, for me, are important reminders of the sustainability of our business. In 2014, for example, we celebrated 50 years in the UK North Sea, 50 years in Egypt and the 20th anniversary of our oil business in Azerbaijan. 

In other countries our history goes back much further. In the United States, for example, our business can be traced back to the 19th century.

The value we bring to society can take many forms. We produce and deliver energy for heat, power and transportation. In doing so, we employ around 85,000 people across the world, create thousands more jobs in supply chains, build useful infrastructure and pay taxes that fund public services ? around $8 billion in 2014.

When I meet people in my job ? from heads of government to community leaders ? I am always conscious that it is by delivering real benefits to the countries where we work that we earn our licence to operate.

We align our interests with those of local economies by using local suppliers, building local capacity and supporting local communities. In Trinidad & Tobago, as one example, we have helped to build up the islands¡¯ gas platform construction industry, established globally respected programmes in petroleum geosciences and other disciplines at the University of the West Indies, and invested in a micro-finance programme that has distributed more than 3,000 loans and created thousands of jobs. 

In Iraq, we have worked with local partners and PetroChina to renew the super giant Rumaila oil field, in the process raising skill levels among Iraqi workers ? with half a million training hours completed last year alone. 

Of course, as a business working in many countries we face challenges and choices. We are always learning but I believe that we can act as a positive force, aiming to set high standards in safety, employment practices, transparency and human rights. When challenged over our operations in a particular country, my acid test is to ask whether the community or country is likely to be better for our involvement. If the answer is yes, then I believe we are right to be there. 

In 2014, we delivered the plan we set out in 2011 to make BP a safer, stronger and better performing business ? recognizing that we need to remain focused in this pursuit. Compared with 2011, we had fewer safety-related incidents and 50% more operating cash flow in 2014.

However, we tragically suffered three fatalities in the workforce and, after a year of very strong progress in safety in 2013, we saw a somewhat higher number of incidents in 2014.

We know we can never be complacent and are continuing our efforts to learn lessons from incidents, ensure conformance with our operating management system and emphasise the right personal behaviours, taking great care in everything we do.

Our relationship with Rosneft continues to attract attention, given the tensions in Ukraine. We remain committed to our long-term investment ? contributing to Rosneft¡¯s strategy through the sharing of environmental and safety best practice. And, of course, we will comply with all relevant sanctions.

In the US, we continue to support the environmental restoration of areas affected by the Gulf of Mexico oil spill ? along with research into understanding any potential longer-term impacts. And, through our operations, investments and our 18,000 employees, we estimate our positive economic impact at $143 billion a year. As regards to the US legal proceedings, we are seeking fair and just outcomes while protecting the best interests of our shareholders. 

Meanwhile we are playing our part in addressing climate change ? by investing in natural gas and renewables as lower-carbon sources of fuel and power, factoring a cost of carbon into our evaluation of proposed projects and advocating for a global carbon price. 

Across all of these issues and more, our aim is to maintain a business that is resilient in challenging times and continues to benefit our stakeholders, including society at large. 

Thank you for reading this report.
