
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- BP 2003

Group chief executive¡¯s introduction

Over the last five years BP has grown significantly. From several heritage companies we have created one BP group, with a strong portfolio of assets, market positions and people, connected by shared values and a common purpose. Our aspirations have grown. We are striving to be numbered among the world¡¯s great companies and to be a force for human progress. We are doing all this in testing times when confidence in major corporations has declined and the spotlight on our activities has become even brighter.
Our intention is therefore to report on more than just our financial performance and tell a broader story as clearly as we can, highlighting our achievements but also being open about the difficulties we encounter. Our goal is to provide a clear window through which our policies, commitments and performance can be assessed, both by the outside world and by our 103,700 employees.
This year we have created a report that provides a concise account of the main issues affecting the energy business and explains how BP is seeking to address them. We have sought
to show how environmental, social and ethical issues help shape our business strategy, a process that begins with our fundamental purpose ? to maximize long-term shareholder value.
This is a simple phrase, but one that makes complex demands. First, it demands that we develop a strategy that will give the company competitive advantage and so create value. Second, since it demands that shareholder value be maintained for the long term, it requires us to build a company that will endure ? a sustainable company, operating in a sustainable world. This is one of the reasons we have called this the BP Sustainability Report 2003. Our strategy defines the destination ? shareholder value ? but the test of sustainability provides the reference by which we judge everything we do. It defines the path towards our destination. To be sustainable, a company cannot exist in isolation but must recognize and manage its wider impact and its contribution to society.
In practical terms, we do this by defining our core values, enshrining them in policies with real meaning and then applying them through specific controlled management processes and standards throughout the group. All of this is carried out within a well-defined system of governance, details of which are clearly laid out in BP Annual Report and Accounts 2003.
Looking to more specific issues, as we seek to manage the impact of our activities on the environment we are driven by an aspiration to transcend the apparent trade-off between energy-led improvements in living standards and environmental degradation. Our goal is to enable energy to be produced and consumed in ways that do no long-term damage to the planet or its people.
In 2003, this led to a range of actions, including a more focused inquiry into what is required to stabilize greenhouse gas concentrations in the atmosphere, and further work to minimize emissions from our own operations. In addition, we have implemented a new programme to determine how reduced emissions from cleaner, less carbon-intense fuels such as natural gas, or motor fuels such as BP Ultimate, can be recognized for their contribution to broader global reduction targets.

The principle of mutual advantage underpins our approach to relationships. Mutual advantage represents our aspiration that every contact a third party has with BP should bring advantage to them as well as to us. This applies as much to a community, country or supplier as to a customer or employee.
In 2003, two developments stood out as examples of our commitment to this principle. The first was the 1,762-kilometre Baku-Tbilisi-Ceyhan  (BTC) oil pipeline, which we began to build in April on behalf of the BTC Company. It is the largest foreign direct investment in the region, with an estimated cost of around $3 billion. The longest pipeline ever built by BP, it avoids the need to send more tankers through the congested Bosporus and Turkish Straits. We have set out to make the pipeline a flagship for local economic benefit, for environmental and social safeguards and for community involvement. Its construction continues, as do scrutiny and external challenge. So, too, does our determination to makeit a positive outcome for all involved as we work to complete the construction in 2005.
Last year, we also made a major investment in Russia, one of the world¡¯s great hydrocarbon basins. Here we are starting a long journey that will test how well we can put our principles into practice. In the joint venture with our partners, we are determined to contribute to the continuing economic progress of Russia, and over time reduce the impact of our operations on the environment.
We attach great importance to the work done by expert organizations to create benchmarks for reporting a company¡¯s performance in respect of the environment, ethics, governance, employment and social issues. This report has been prepared in accordance with the 2002 Global Reporting Initiative Guidelines and has been independently verified. We believe it represents a balanced and reasonable presentation of our economic, environmental and social performance. We also include a ¡®Communication on Progress¡¯ on how we are living the United Nations Global Compact Principles.
As we progress towards our goals, we will not get everything right all the time. We are grappling with difficult and complex issues in challenging parts of the world. But I am convinced that BP must be a force for good wherever we operate and that corporate responsibility must remain at the heart of our business, driving everything we do. You will judge how well we are succeeding.
I hope this report will provide a clearer picture of the actions we are taking to meet the world¡¯s needs for energy while promoting human progress and preserving the natural environment. If there are ways we can improve it, please let us know. I hope it provides real insight as to what is at the core of BP.



The Lord Browne of Madingley
Group Chief Executive
April 2004

---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- BP 2004

Group chief executive¡¯s introduction

2004 was a great year in terms of financial and operational performance and it was also a significant year in the group¡¯s long-term evolution.
Our Annual Report and Accounts 2004 covers financial and operating performance in detail. This report looks at the performance of 2004 in the longer-term context of BP¡¯s sustainability as a group.
The road to sustainability begins with our fundamental purpose as an organization ? to provide better goods and services in the form of light, heat, power and mobility to increasing numbers of people and thereby to deliver shareholder value on a long-term basis.
To succeed, we need to do this in a way that is profitable, consistent and sustainable.
To deliver profitable performance, we provide high-quality products in an effective way ? maximizing revenues and minimizing costs.
To deliver consistent performance, we fund controlled investment that supports long-term growth, balancing this with returns to shareholders and the interests of all who are affected by our work.
To deliver sustainable performance, we require a combination of factors. Our investments must be for the long term. We have to attract and retain the best people. We must work with others towards a sustainable environment. And we must build trust through relationships based on ¡®mutual advantage¡¯ ? relationships that bring benefits to everyone concerned.
Along with standards such as those set out in our new code of conduct, the consideration of mutual advantage keeps our ambition within legitimate bounds and marks out the path we take towards creating value.
To achieve our purpose, we follow a strategy that is itself founded on the principles of sustainability. In exploration and production, we seek out long-term assets ? the largest, low-cost, new hydrocarbon deposits. In 2004, on a UK GAAP/SORP basis, we achieved proved reserves replacement (for subsidiaries and equity-accounted entities) of over 100% for the 12th consecutive year. In our customer- facing businesses, we look to build long-term customer loyalty through the quality of our products and services.
In enacting our strategy, we must also act responsibly if we are to build trust. ¡¯Responsibility¡¯ is a much-used term in the business world and it is important to be clear about what we mean by it. During 2004, we discussed this in some detail in BP and we concluded that responsibility operates on several levels, all of them closely linked to our business strategy.
At a basic level, responsibility means observing the law ? complying with the laws and regulations that govern our operations in each country.
At the next level, responsibility takes us beyond compliance to set our own standards in our operations ? applied consistently worldwide and often going beyond what local laws require. So, for example, no one in BP is allowed to use a mobile phone when driving on company business. And our code of conduct forbids the making of facilitation payments or company-funded political contributions.
At a further level, responsibility prompts us to take action on issues that extend beyond our own operations and where we can make a difference.
For example, we knew seven years ago that we had to take a stand on climate change. The evidence for precautionary action was growing. And over those years we have not only reduced our own greenhouse gas emissions but have taken an increasing part in the global debate on climate change. More recently, we have recognized the contribution we can make towards education, a powerful force for development and awareness, not least environmental issues.
This approach to responsibility, as well as our overall strategy, has to be applied in the light of the context at any given time. In 2004, this context included our own expanded scope, scale and footprint. It also included an
energy market that experienced the fastest-growing demand for several decades at the same time as supply disruptions such as those arising from Hurricane Ivan and events in Iraq. This led to a debate about energy supplies, in which we reiterated our view that the global market provides the best guarantee of sustainable security of supply.
In an uncertain and challenging world, our key objective for the long term is simple ? to be there for the long term and to be a positive influence. Such long-term considerations have a direct impact on our plans. For example, we have deliberately planned the development of our natural gas businesses because we recognize that gas ? being lighter
in carbon than oil and coal ? is an important bridge towards the lower-carbon world of the future.
2004 was also a year of change to our community investment strategy. We identified three areas for community investment where there is an overlap between what we can offer and what communities need. We plan to spend around $500 million on these areas over each five-year period:
?   Enterprise ? supporting local and regional economic development.
?   Education ? supporting a wide range of appropriate learning initiatives.
?   Energy ? enabling communities to gain access to energy.
This report also covers the resources and capabilities we use to turn such plans into action ? from the way we develop our people to the way we work with experts in areas such as biodiversity or environmental research.
For people to fulfil their potential, they need clarity and confidence about their roles. In BP, we seek to achieve this through our management framework, which sets out clear personal accountabilities and the processes by which authority is delegated.
These plans result in a wide range of activities. Some represent incremental stages of a journey ? such as the creation in 2004 of new safety standards ? while others are milestones, events that mark out choices we have made about our future direction in response to the challenges we face.
For example, in 2004, transparency associated with tax and revenue payments remained a complex and difficult issue. However, an important step forward was taken when we and others signed an agreement in Azerbaijan under the Extractive Industries Transparency Initiative, providing for companies to publish details of the combined taxes which they pay to the government. It is critical that we maintain momentum on this issue.
In the effort to take further precautions against climate change, we launched a major project with our joint venture in Algeria to capture carbon dioxide that would otherwise be released and to store it underground forever. We also responded to challenges over environmentally sensitive areas by developing a new process for the early assessment of the sensitivity of particular projects and new criteria to govern our involvement.
In our Annual Report and Accounts 2004 you can read our financial results, while this report gives data on factors that affect long-term sustainability. We apply the same disciplines of performance management to these factors as to all areas of business, seeking in each case continuous improvement.
While there is always more to do, we were honoured by the external recognition that we received from many external agencies, for both our performance on the ground in our business operations and also our sustainability reporting. However, the following page highlights some of the difficulties and challenges we faced in 2004, as well as some of our achievements. For example, it shows that, while our overall safety record improved once again, we still had a number of fatalities, a loss of life that we deeply regret.
For the second year, this report has been prepared in accordance with the 2002 Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Guidelines. We believe it represents a balanced and reasonable presentation of our group¡¯s economic, environmental and social performance. We believe the GRI is a driver for consistency and comparability in reporting and this is why we have chosen to support the development of the next generation of reporting guidelines (G3).
We also include a ¡®Communication on Progress¡¯, which describes how we are seeking to demonstrate the United Nations Global Compact Principles in our work.
We have made good progress in many areas in 2004 but there is no room for complacency. There will be many challenges as we continue to develop our businesses around the world.
There will be continued focus on transparency. And human rights will continue to be in the spotlight. Our challenge is to continue to apply what we have learned and to support the Voluntary Principles on Security and Human Rights, bringing stability and consensus to the security and policing of oil and gas developments. A key project that is scheduled to start construction in 2005 is the LNG project at Tangguh, in Indonesia. As we move towards production, we must generate social and economic benefits there as well as creating value for shareholders from a world-class project.
I leave you to judge whether BP is an increasingly responsible company that deserves to prosper for decades. It is a judgement that will be based not on reports or words alone, but on witnessing sustained, consistent actions by the group¡¯s 102,900 people worldwide.



The Lord Browne of Madingley
Group Chief Executive

---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- BP 2005

Group chief executive¡¯s introduction

We start  from the  view that  the  purpose of business is to satisfy  human needs and, in doing so, to generate profits  for investors. For BP, that  means providing energy to fuel human progress and economic growth. It also means satisfying the  need for a sustainable environment.
This philosophy helps  to shape everything we  do and we  regard  responsible behaviour as an essential part of the  fabric of the  group  ? not something to be added on as an afterthought. The actions we  take  are designed to enable our business to prosper and all our activities  contribute to the  delivery of our purpose as a business. Our focus is on safety and operational integrity,  security of supply  and the  protection of people and the  natural  environment.
On many  fronts,  our performance in 2005  was  very strong but the  year was  overshadowed by the  industrial accident at our Texas  City refinery  in March,  which  caused 15 deaths and many  more  injuries. That incident  has  been the  subject of rigorous  and thorough investigation both  by our own  team and by external authorities and lessons have  been learned. We are determined to do everything possible to ensure that no such  accident recurs.
In addition  to safety, the  primary challenge for BP in 2005  was  the  maintenance of the  flow of secure supplies of energy to our customers in the  face  of volatile markets and the instability caused by continued conflict in the  Middle East,  terrorism, and extreme weather conditions in the  US and elsewhere. Our success in meeting this fundamental element of our purpose was  due  to the  talent  and dedication of our staff,  often  working  under  conditions of severe difficulty.
BP now  produces more  than  4 million barrels  of oil equivalent per day of oil and gas  for customers across the  world. To sustain supplies and meet the  growing  levels  of demand that  population  growth and prosperity are generating we  continue to invest  for the future.  Our capital spending totalled  $13.9  billion in 2005.  More  than  $10 billion of this figure was  in exploration and production, bringing the  total so far since  the  turn of the  century to more  than  $50 billion. That investment will help to provide  sustainable supplies of oil and gas  for decades to come.
No company in the  oil and gas  industry, however, can fail to recognize that,  as the  demand for our products rises,  so too does the  risk that  their use  will contribute to the  environmental challenges associated with an increasing concentration of carbon  in the  atmosphere. The science of climate  change may be incomplete but we  would  be foolish to ignore  the  mounting evidence and the  conclusion of many of the  world¡¯s most eminent scientists that precautionary action  is necessary.
Over recent years, we have taken  steps to reduce emissions from our own operations and to improve the quality of our products. In 2005, we took an important step with a substantial investment in the development of an alternative energy business that will offer our customers new  choices of low-carbon energy. BP Alternative Energy is focused on the power generation sector
? the largest single source of emissions ? through investments in solar power, wind, combined-cycle gas turbines, and the new  technology of sequestration in which carbon  is captured and stored, allowing hydrogen to be used to generate clean, low- carbon  electric power.
This is a long-term but very exciting  development which  we  believe  can help meet the  energy needs of a growing  world while minimizing the  impact  on our common environment.
The other  element of sustainability is human talent.
In all the  places in which  we  operate, we  are committed to the  development of people. Within BP, that  commitment is reflected in our policies  of inclusion  and meritocracy and our determination to develop individuals, regardless of their background, creed or colour.
Beyond  the  group,  we  are committed to the  development of enterprise and education to help ensure that  the  communities in which  we  work are equipped to take  advantage of the wealth created by natural  resource development. In 2005, we  appointed our first director  of education, whose role
is both  to co-ordinate our existing  activities  and to develop a continuing  programme to maximize  our contribution to the development of human capacity in the places where we operate.
These activities, many  of which are described in greater detail in the  following pages, represent the  practical expression of our commitment to the  principle of mutual advantage.
This report  has  been prepared in accordance with the 2002  Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Guidelines. We believe it represents a balanced and reasonable presentation of BP¡¯s economic, environmental and social performance. BP has supported GRI in the  development of the  next  generation of reporting guidelines, expected to be launched in 2006.
For the  first year, we  also report  against the  IPIECA/API indicators, which  provide  guidance on voluntary  disclosure for the  oil and gas  industry. BP played  a significant  role in the  development of these new  sector guidelines. We also include  a ¡®Communication on Progress¡¯, which  describes how  we  continue to seek to demonstrate the  United  Nations Global Compact principles  in our work.
We have  much  to do, and much  to learn, but our aspiration remains unchanged ? to be a company that  works  consistently and universally  in ways that  help to sustain the  development of the  world of which  we  are part.


The Lord Browne of Madingley
Group Chief Executive
April 2006

---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- BP 2006

Group chief executive¡¯s introduction

Business is a long-term activity. Investments, especially for a company such as BP, are designed to create activities that will endure and remain profitable over decades. Every purchase in a BP service station is part of a long-term relationship with the individual customer rather  than a single transaction. Our relationships with partners, suppliers, governments, staff, investors and the  communities in which we  operate are built on the  principle of long-term mutual advantage. They are built to last.
That is why we  care  about  the  sustainability of our activities and why, throughout the  company, we  work to ensure that the things we  do and the  way we  do them are genuinely sustainable.
The past two years have been difficult for BP. In March 2005,  at the Texas City refinery, we  suffered a tragedy in which 15 people died and many  more  were seriously injured. We have  also experienced operational difficulties in Alaska and the  potentially destabilizing effects of intense and at times unbalanced media scrutiny and criticism.
Given that context, the achievements recorded in this document, our sixteenth annual report  on non-financial performance, are remarkable and a great  testimony to the BP team across the  world:
?   An improvement in personal safety, with reported recordable injury frequency the  lowest in our recorded history.
?   Ongoing improvements in our environmental impact across a series of measures.
?   An improvement in the  development of people, including an increase in the  number of women in leadership since 2000.
?   And, of course, a strong financial performance allowing us
to invest for the  future  and to reward those who  trust us with their savings.
The achievements reflect the  determination of the  company ? the  board,  the  senior management, and approximately 97,000 staff in more  than 100 countries around  the  world ? to deliver on the  promises we  make  and to fulfil our aspiration of creating a company which on every  dimension is sustainable.
This report  presents the  facts, but behind every  statement of fact and every  item of data is a story of individuals and teams working to achieve continuous improvement, often  in very tough  circumstances.
?   Our team in Baku, which in 2006  successfully completed the development of a 1,768km pipeline, which now brings around 600 thousand barrels of oil per day to the  world market. That development took 12 years and represented not only one of the  great  engineering projects of our time, but also the  first international investment across three complex societies and in geography that posed huge  environmental challenges.
?   Our team in Indonesia, which in 2006 continued the development of one  of the  world¡¯s great  gas fields, Tangguh,  working in a remote, environmentally sensitive area  and requiring the  greatest of care  in integrating a large-scale construction process with the  life of the  local community.
?   Our team in the  BP Alternative Energy  business, managing a series of dynamic, fast-growing activities, including solar, wind and the  hugely promising technology of carbon  capture and storage. All those activities carry the  potential to help the world make  the  transition to a lower-carbon economy ?a transition that is essential if the  risks of climate change are to be avoided and is a sustained transition which BP started some 10 years ago.
?   Our team in the trading business ? matching supply to demand on a daily basis and managing a fast-moving market ? and in doing so helping to sustain energy security in a world disrupted by war and civil conflict.
Each one  of those teams has a great  story to tell, as do hundreds of other  teams across every  business segment and function in BP.
Sustainability is about  their activity, day in and day out. Sustainability is also about  the  policies that underpin our work and shape every decision we  take.
Policies, for instance, on business ethics and transparency that  start from our firm conviction that business should be an open  activity and that corruption is both  a corrosive restraint on genuine development and a direct business cost that can and must be eliminated.
Our policies also guide the  way in which we  manage and develop the  people who  work for BP. Great  companies will only succeed if they are free  of prejudice and bigotry that can limit the  development of individuals on the  basis of, for example, gender, nationality, race,  sexual orientation or age. What matters in every decision on employment must be merit ? as measured by track record  and a judgement of potential.
In all these ways, we  aim to achieve the  sustainability of the  group  and, even  more  important, the  sustainability of the societies in which we  operate. Companies are part of society and in the  long term  we  can only thrive if society is itself thriving.
The overall story of this report  therefore is one  of progress and success but not without its challenges.
There is no sense of complacency in BP. The tragic events of Texas City reminded us all of the  physical danger associated with the commodities with which we  work and the  need for the  strongest processes, matched by a universal sense of personal responsibility, in the  management of risk in all our operations. This report  includes a full description of all the  things we  are doing in response to what  happened at Texas City. Our absolute determination is to learn the  lessons and to ensure that,  to the  very best of our ability, no such tragedy can occur again.
Nor are we  complacent about  any of the  other  topics covered in this report. We recognize the  risks and challenges we  face.
We also recognize that while we  have  made progress in many areas much  remains to be done. Sustainability is a continuous process and the  effort  to attain sustainability has to begin again every  day.
This year marks our fourth  using the  Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Guidelines and the  first in which we  report  against the  new  G3 guidelines. BP was an active supporter of the  development of these. We believe the  report  represents a balanced and reasonable presentation of BP¡¯s economic, social and environmental performance.
Once  again, we  also report  against the  IPIECA/API indicators, which provide guidance on voluntary disclosure for the  oil and gas industry.
BP has now  sustained itself as a company for almost 100 years through periods of dramatic economic, social, political, technological and commercial change. As I believe  this report  demonstrates, we  have  achieved a great  deal and we  are clear and realistic in our awareness that we  have  a great  deal still to do.



The Lord Browne of Madingley
Group Chief Executive
April 2007

---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- BP 2007
Group chief executive¡¯s introduction

It is a privilege to introduce this report  for the first time as BP¡¯s group chief executive. I am very conscious of the need to manage BP¡¯s business in a way that contributes to our long-term sustainability and that of the society and environment around  us. Today, I believe that the best preparation for our sustainability is to focus  on three priorities: safety, people and performance. Safety is at the heart  of responsibility. Every action we take depends on our people. And performance provides us with the opportunity to make  a broader contribution to society.
In terms of safety, we are still learning lessons from the tragic incident  at Texas City in 2005. In early 2007, the independent panel chaired  by former  US Secretary of State James A Baker, III reported on safety at our US refineries. We agreed to implement all its recommendations and we are now working to do so. As the panel recommended, we have appointed an independent expert to monitor our progress and he has made his first annual report
to the board, a summary of which can be found in this document. We are also now  introducing our new  operating management system (OMS), designed to bring greater consistency to our operations. Our aim is to have  commenced use  of the  OMS throughout BP by the end of 2010. My executive team continues to monitor  closely our safety performance. This shows that,  since
1999  after the BP?Amoco  merger, our safety performance has improved by approximately two-thirds, while over the past two years  our record  has been our best ever. We continue to aspire  to our ultimate goal of: no accidents, no harm to people, no damage to the environment.
To achieve excellence, we also need the right people with the right skills in the right places. The report  explains how we are redoubling our efforts in this area by enhancing the way we recruit talented people and provide opportunities for development.
BP¡¯s financial performance during 2007  was  disappointing and in response I have outlined  a forward  agenda designed to make our business simpler  and more  efficient. Our focus  is on moving  resources to the  front-line operations where they  are needed and we expect this to result  in an overall reduction in employee numbers.
In the  industry, the  year was  marked by high and volatile prices, rising concerns about  climate  change and fears  over security of energy supplies as some governments asserted greater control  over national  resources.
As we set out our response to these challenges, we must start  by acknowledging that BP is predominantly an oil and gas business. However, this is not incompatible with environmental progress because there will be a continuing  role for fossil fuels in the future alongside greater energy efficiency and more low-carbon energy. Our aim is not to abandon fossil fuels, but to produce and use  them more  efficiently, while scaling up and investing significant resources in the new  technologies we need for the transition to a low-carbon future. This is what  we mean by going ¡®beyond petroleum¡¯ and it is reflected in this report.
Chapter 1 covers actions designed to build safe reliable operations. It is split into three sections: Safety; Managing our impacts; and People. Chapter 2 highlights progress in  moving towards a low-carbon future, including BP Alternative Energy¡¯s record, for example in expanding our solar and wind power businesses. Chapter 3 covers our contributions to sustainable development, which,  again,  are rooted in our operations. I am committed to making BP a local energy company everywhere we work, employing local staff, supporting local enterprise and developing local leaders. As we do so, we value partnerships with governments, NGOs and others through membership of the UN Global Compact and frameworks such as the Voluntary Principles on Security and Human  Rights.
This report  is our fifth using the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Guidelines and the second reporting against the GRI¡¯s G3 guidelines. Once  again, we also report  against the IPIECA/API indicators, which provide guidance on voluntary disclosure for the oil and gas industry.
We value your scrutiny  and we hope  that you see in this report  evidence of our determination to make  BP a sustainable business and to contribute to the world¡¯s sustainability.

Tony Hayward
Group Chief Executive
May 2008


---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- BP 2008
Group chief executive¡¯s review
Tony Hayward Group Chief Executive

Driving forward

Tony Hayward, BP¡¯s group chief executive (GCE), discusses sustainability-related issues, including some frequently raised by those who read BP¡¯s reports on environmental and social performance.

With so much of your focus on improving
BP¡¯s performance, does this mean that the environment and your other sustainability commitments to stakeholders are less important? Not at all. I don¡¯t see a distinction between sustainability and performance. My aim for BP is that its performance should be sustainable ? in other words everything we do each day should contribute in some way to the long-term health of BP and that of the environment and society.
We measure performance accordingly, not only with financial metrics but also with the data on safety, the environment and employees that you see in this Review. This reflects my top three priorities as chief executive: safety, people and performance. You can see a similar balanced approach in our new operating management system (OMS), which is to be implemented at each
BP site. It covers everything from compliance and risk management through to governance and measuring results. By including all these elements, we¡¯re looking to the future as well as the present and I believe that is the foundation for responsible and best-in-class performance.

You have talked about reducing complexity ?what does this mean?
It means creating fewer interfaces between different teams so that issues can be considered and decisions taken more efficiently. This has two added benefits. First, it means everyone is clear about their accountabilities. Second, it removes layers of management and reduces costs. We have also introduced a new leadership framework to clarify our expectations for leaders¡¯ behaviours across BP. This is supported by training through our managing essentials programme. At the frontline, the OMS gives operations teams much more clarity on what is expected of them. The actions we have taken over the past two years to reduce complexity and costs in BP mean that we are well positioned to meet the challenge of the current economic downturn.

In 2008 you committed to various projects that appear uneconomic as we move into 2009 with a global recession in prospect. Will you continue to invest in these projects?
We will continue to invest in projects that we believe are viable and necessary to meet demand for energy over the longer term. We keep all plans under review, but are mindful that energy investments are measured in decades and need to be tested against a range of possible future scenarios. We believe energy demand will rise in the long term, given the pace of industrialization in Asia and elsewhere. This approach is part of a wider balance we seek to strike, taking action on costs to respond to the current challenges and continuing to invest for long-term growth. At BP, we¡¯ve been managing volatility for 100 years and our investment strategy is designed to balance long-term goals with short-term oil price cycle changes.

Is BP back-tracking on its commitments on climate change?
No. I¡¯m proud that we are widely recognized as the first global energy company to call for action publicly over climate change and I unambiguously support that position today. We continue to strive for energy efficiency in our operations and are investing in low- carbon energy as well as engaging with governments and regulators to shape legislation that will facilitate progress towards a low-carbon economy and make it commercially viable.

Why is only around 5% of BP¡¯s capital investment in alternative energy?
Today the vast majority of our returns come from oil and gas and they are likely to continue to do so. However, we also invest a significant amount in alternative energy technology compared with our peers and, for us, the key question is which technologies will make the greatest contribution to meeting energy demand while providing BP with strong growth businesses. We are prioritizing areas with significant long-term growth potential ? wind, solar, biofuels and CCS ? and we directed the majority of our $1.4 billion investment in low-carbon energy in 2008 to these areas. There is a complicated ? and still emerging ? incentive framework required to make lower carbon energy choices competitive with current energy sources.

How can a company that claims to go ¡®beyond petroleum¡¯ invest in the Canadian oil sands, where production is so energy-intensive?
A diversity of supplies is needed to meet future demand for reliable energy, ranging from zero-carbon technologies to more energy-intensive projects. Canadian oil sands, for example, provide a more secure source of oil supply to consumers in North America.
We recognize that oil sands projects raise significant environmental challenges, but we are actively seeking ways to undertake ours in a way that minimizes the environmental footprint.

Given mounting concern that a peak in oil production is close, with the International Energy Agency (IEA) admitting that the production decline rate for mature oil fields is nearly 7% a year, how will BP go about meeting future demand?
As a geologist and a businessman, I don¡¯t believe the world is running out of oil in the near or foreseeable future. The data shows that there are around 40 years of proved oil reserves left in the ground and 60 years of natural gas, at today¡¯s consumption rates, not including unconventional hydrocarbons. When it comes to meeting demand, the problems are above ground not below it.

How can policy frameworks help the industry to meet future demand sustainably?
The policy frameworks should support investments necessary to meet future energy demand as well as address the challenge of climate change. In order to stimulate investment, we need stable fiscal and regulatory policies and active support for a free and open energy market. We also need measures that enable the industry to find and develop new sources of oil and gas. Energy efficiency needs to be encouraged as it benefits both the environment and the economy.
In order to address climate change, carbon needs to be priced, preferably through cap-and-trade systems, so that its cost is included in everything from taking a train to turning on a light. There should also be transitional incentives that make low-carbon energy competitive with other energy sources, rewarding cost reductions and deployment at scale. And, in order to make our investments effective and efficient, we need a step-change in investment in research, development and deployment of energy technology.

Has BP really improved the safety and integrity management of its operations since the Texas City fire and explosion in 2005 and the Alaskan pipeline leaks in 2006?
Yes. Safe and reliable operations are BP¡¯s number one priority and we have taken a series of actions to improve performance. The short-term programme has included improving processes to assess risks of major accidents and new standards for control of work and integrity management. For the longer term, we have introduced the OMS to improve the management of safety risks
and the quality of performance in our operations worldwide. While I deeply regret every fatality or injury, I¡¯m encouraged by the overall improvement in our safety performance in 2008, as detailed in this review and our online report ? and recognize we still have a lot to do.

Why would someone want to work at BP?
BP is celebrating its centenary this year. The qualities that first drove us 100 years ago continue to drive us now. We¡¯ve always been an organization that operates at the frontiers and that strives to make a difference in the world. A person joining BP now can expect a varied and challenging career in a successful, global business with a strong sense of its role and contribution to the world. That sounds to me like an exciting and interesting place to work. 

----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Supplementary Information 
Highlights
? Progress with safe and reliable operations.
? Reduction in organizational complexity.
? Focused investment in low-carbon energy.

---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- BP 2009
Group chief executive¡¯s review
Tony Hayward Group Chief Executive
April 2010

Diverse, innovative and efficient
Tony Hayward, BP¡¯s group chief executive, discusses sustainability-related issues, including some frequently raised by those who read BP¡¯s reports on environmental and social performance.

Energy is high on the public agenda. What are the priorities for its future?
Reliable and affordable supplies of hydrocarbon energy were taken for granted through much of the 20th century as they laid the foundation for the world¡¯s economic progress. They will be just as fundamental in the future, particularly to meet rising demand in emerging economies such as China and India. What¡¯s different today is that energy has become a complex challenge, with strategic, economic and environmental dimensions.
Energy security, climate change and the energy needed to support economic development and jobs will keep energy high on the public and political agenda for some considerable time. I believe the main ways to meet the world¡¯s future energy challenges are through diversity, by accessing the widest range of energy sources; competition, by bringing out the best ways of finding, producing and distributing energy; and efficiency, by making the most of each unit of energy.

What role will an oil and gas company have in the decades to come?
According to International Energy Agency (IEA) projections, the world could potentially consume around 40% more energy in 2030 than we consume today ? requiring investment of at least $1 trillion every year in energy infrastructure. In meeting this demand sustainably, there will need to be changes in the energy mix. We will need more low-carbon energy and we need to use all forms of energy more efficiently. The share of energy derived from renewable sources will certainly increase in the future, and carbon capture technology could be deployed at scale. However, the IEA anticipates fossil fuels still being the dominant source of energy in 2030, even in a scenario in which major carbon emissions are tightly constrained over the next two decades.
In other words, the energy companies of the future will need to supply a diverse energy mix. The mix will be more than oil and gas ? but hydrocarbons will still be a major part of it.

So, what is BP doing to meet future energy demand for oil and gas?
Our analysis indicates the world has enough proved reserves to last for about 40 years for oil and 60 years for gas, at today¡¯s consumption rates. There is also a lot more oil and gas to find ? but it requires working at the industry¡¯s frontiers and continuing to innovate in our technology and processes, as indeed BP has done through its 100- year history. Our progress in deepwater exploration is a good example. Last year we made the Tiber discovery more than 10 kilometres beneath the Gulf of Mexico. That¡¯s further below sea level than the top of Mount Everest is above it. That oil is in a geological layer, the lower tertiary, which we are only now starting to map and understand. We are also pioneering new technologies ? such as digital imaging of reservoirs and advanced drilling techniques
? to access gas that is locked in dense rock formations. We¡¯re also getting more oil and gas out of mature fields. The average recovery rate from a reservoir is about 35%, but in our Prudhoe Bay development in Alaska we now expect to recover around
60% of the oil as a result of our enhanced oil recovery processes.

How significant is BP¡¯s deal in Iraq?
Our deal to increase production from the Rumaila field is significant in several ways. It gives us a great opportunity to work with the people of Iraq and our partner China National Petroleum Company to develop one of the world¡¯s great oilfields. We see this as the beginning of a long-term relationship that will be instrumental in helping Iraq to rebuild its economy after years of war and sanctions. The investment in Rumaila will support Iraq in achieving its ambition of becoming a major player in global oil markets once again and will catalyse training and development opportunities for the many thousands of Iraqis working in Rumaila.

How do you respond to people¡¯s concerns about BP and Canadian oil sands?
Our Sunrise joint venture in the Canadian oil sands will make a significant contribution to energy security for North America. The project will be using steam assisted gravity drainage, which is close to conventional reservoir engineering. We plan to use our technology capabilities to achieve a high level of energy efficiency and minimize the greenhouse gas emissions associated with this form of oil sands production. We won¡¯t be pursuing Canadian oil sands mining projects. And, as with all new projects, we follow an established environmental and social practice, which includes water management, land use and community relations.

How do you view the outcome of the 2009 Copenhagen conference on climate change?
The Copenhagen conference had some very important outcomes even though a formal global treaty was not agreed. For the first time since the climate debate began in earnest some 20 years ago, the vast majority of the world¡¯s countries are aligned and heading in the same direction. Most importantly, China and the US are on board and politically committed to a negotiating process with a timetable and an agreed goal. Meanwhile, on the ground, many governments are acting to set emissions targets and companies like BP are responding with investments in energy efficiency and low-carbon energy. For a long time, BP has advocated a proactive approach to climate change and supported action to curb carbon emissions. However, governments also need to lead and create ways of reducing emissions that are fair, consistent and effective. We want to see a price put on carbon emissions, which treats all carbon as equal whether from the tailpipe or smokestack. The best way to achieve this, we believe, is through market mechanisms that encourage the most efficient ways to cut emissions.

What is BP specifically doing to address climate change in its plans for meeting the world¡¯s future energy needs?
For BP, supporting the transition to a low-carbon economy has several dimensions. We are improving energy efficiency in BP¡¯s own operations through close performance monitoring as well as developing more efficient fuels and lubricants. We are promoting natural gas as a key part of the energy future ? gas is easily the cleanest burning fossil fuel, as well as being efficient, versatile and abundantly available. We are also including a cost of carbon in investment appraisals for all new major projects to allow informed investment in fossil fuels and encourage development of the technology needed to reduce their carbon footprint. And finally, we are investing in our low-carbon businesses. Since 2005
we have invested around $4 billion in Alternative Energy, with our activity focused on advanced biofuels, our wind business in the US, solar power, and carbon capture and storage.

What progress has BP made on safety during 2009?
Safety is fundamental to our success as a company and 2009 was important because of the progress we made in implementing our operating management system (OMS). The OMS contains rigorous and tested processes for reducing risks and driving continuous improvement. I see it as the foundation for a safe, responsible and high-performing BP. Having been initially introduced at eight sites in 2008, the OMS rollout extended to 70 sites by the end of 2009, including all our operated refineries and petrochemicals plants. This means implementation is 80% complete. I¡¯m proud that our injury rates have come down around 75% in the past decade. However, we still have work to do and I deeply regret the two deaths we suffered in operations at BP sites last year. My deep sympathies are also with the families of those 16 colleagues who died in a helicopter accident on their way back from North Sea assignments in April 2009. We are closely following the work being done by investigators and the helicopter industry to enable lessons to be learned.

Does BP have the right capabilities among its people to meet the challenges of the future?
Our people agenda has been a key aspect of BP¡¯s transformation over the past few years. I think our improved performance is a good indication that we do have the right people in the right places with the right skills. We have developed a new leadership framework ensuring we value and deepen specialist expertise. We have put in place extensive programmes to build the professional skills of our people, with a particular focus on operations. And we¡¯re fostering a culture  of operational excellence and continuous improvement across all our activities.
I am also absolutely committed to making BP a real meritocracy that reflects the communities it works in and genuinely practises diversity and inclusion. I want this to be a place where everyone can fulfil their potential. That is good for the individuals but it is also good for business.

Does BP need to operate according to internal standards or follow external benchmarks on sustainability-related issues?
Both, depending on the issue in question. We are responsible for our operations and we are accountable for setting and observing consistent and high standards within them. Our code of conduct, for example, provides clear expectations on behaviour and compliance. However, on wider issues where our influence extends into society more generally, we support relevant external standards. In particular, we support the UN Global Compact, which sets out a series of principles for corporate responsibility. My goal is that BP should not only be a leader in what we do ? by achieving excellent financial and operational results ? but also in how we do it, because the ¡®how¡¯ is central to building the trust and accountability needed for long-term success. We have emerged from 2009 in great shape and with a renewed confidence and determination to realize our potential both in the short and the long term.

----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Supplementary Information 
Highlights
? Improved financial performance.
? Progress on safe and reliable operations.
? People agenda essential to BP¡¯s transformation.

---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- BP 2010

A letter from our group chief executive

Each year, BP¡¯s Sustainability Report looks at how our progress contributes towards our long-term
prospects as a company and to society as a whole. This report should, therefore, start with a clear acknowledgement ? 2010 was a year that called BP¡¯s sustainability into question.
The tragic accident in the Gulf of Mexico on 20 April 2010 cost 11 lives, leading to a major oil spill and a widespread loss of trust in BP. We are so very sorry for what happened. Nothing can replace the people who died and our thoughts remain with their loved ones.
Our task now is to earn back the trust that was lost and build a sustainable BP for the future. This report explains the measures we are taking to strengthen safety, restore trust and build shareholder value responsibly for the long term.

The Gulf of Mexico accident and response
The explosion on the Deepwater Horizon oil platform and the consequent oil spill were terrible events that should never have happened. Having grown up in Mississippi, I know the Gulf Coast well and
I have been deeply saddened by the widespread impact on the local environment and economy.
We took responsibility for the clean-up immediately. The response effort was one of unprecedented scale, which ? at its peak ? involved 48,000 people, 6,500 vessels and 125 aircraft. We set up the $20-billion Deepwater Horizon Oil Spill Trust for claims and certain other costs, and have provided hundreds of millions of dollars for economic, health and environmental programmes. We suspended dividend payments for three quarters and initiated $30 billion of asset sales to provide confidence that we could meet our commitments ? in 2010 and the coming years.

A safer, stronger BP
As well as meeting our obligations in the Gulf of Mexico, we are now focused on building a safer and stronger BP everywhere we work. This determination will drive how we manage risk, how we operate, how we partner with others and how we reward our employees.
To ensure that our enhancements to safety and risk management are applied quickly, thoroughly and effectively, we are carrying out a wide-ranging change programme. We have set up a new safety and operational risk function that has its specialist personnel embedded in BP¡¯s businesses, working alongside the line management to guide, advise and, if needed, to intervene.
We have accepted and are implementing the recommendations made in our investigation report, published in September 2010. We are sharing what we have learned about deepwater drilling and oil spill response with the industry, governments and regulators. We are co-operating with a series of investigations, and we are supporting initiatives to bring about necessary regulatory change.
During 2010, we suffered three fatalities besides those sustained in the Deepwater Horizon accident ? a loss of life that we deeply regret ? and our overall recordable injury frequency rose as a result of response activities, such as beach cleaning.
We fully understand the need to deliver safe and productive operations. We have made some progress, but there is more to do and we know that. Given the nature of the challenges we take on, BP can never eliminate risk, but we can work with others to better understand, limit and manage risk.
Insight and wisdom from beyond our own industry will help in this regard. We have engaged with experts from other sectors and I am pleased that our recent board appointments include Frank L ¡®Skip¡¯ Bowman, former head of the US Navy¡¯s Naval Nuclear Propulsion Programme; Brendan Nelson, former vice-chairman of KPMG, who has vast financial and auditing experience; and Phuthuma Nhleko, who brings deep experience of emerging markets.

Reshaping BP
BP¡¯s mission for 2011 and beyond is to grow value for our shareholders in a way that is safe and sustainable. 2011 will be a year of consolidation in which we focus on our number one priority ? safety ? and strengthen the drivers of long-term performance, such as risk management, capability and relationships. We will invest in areas where we excel, such as exploration, and we will enter into new types of relationships with partners.
We are also divesting businesses that are more valuable or strategic to others than ourselves. This includes reshaping our downstream business to better reflect the changing patterns of global energy demand, where growth is concentrated in emerging markets. One outcome of this strategy is our decision to divest some US-based businesses, notably the Texas City and Carson refineries. We very much appreciate the work that our teams have done there. At Texas City, great progress has been made in safety since the accident there in 2005. We are committed to handling the transition to other operators with respect and sensitivity, in keeping with our belief in being a responsible member of each community where we operate.
We are also developing groundbreaking strategic partnerships with national oil companies and other resource holders. Our new partnerships with Rosneft in Russia and Reliance Industries in India illustrate this strategy in action. With Rosneft, we will seek to explore and develop the Russian Arctic continental shelf, and have agreed to jointly establish an Arctic technology centre in Russia to promote safety, environmental integrity and emergency-spill-response capability. Through our agreement with Reliance, we will have a major stake in a large offshore basin and create a joint venture to source and market gas in in the growing Indian market.

The changing energy landscape
We create value for shareholders by providing the energy that a growing population needs to generate progress and prosperity. Our recent projection of energy trends, BP Energy Outlook
2030, indicates in its ¡®base case¡¯ that primary energy use could grow by nearly 40% over the next
20 years, with more than 90% of demand growth coming from emerging economies.
Whatever precise trajectory demand takes, all forms of energy will be required to meet rising demand, with fossil fuels remaining an essential part of the energy mix for decades. With global oil production from existing fields declining by around 5% a year, it¡¯s vital that new fields are discovered and developed. This is why BP will continue to move farther into harsh, remote and complex geographies, from deep water to the Russian Arctic; from oil sands and unconventional gas to giant fields ? such as Rumaila in Iraq. We believe we can help meet energy demand and create returns for investors by applying our distinctive skills, capabilities and technologies in these demanding areas.
We remain acutely aware that we must continue to address the challenge of climate change. As a company, we are acting to limit greenhouse gas emissions. We are building our business in natural gas, which provides a lower-carbon  alternative to coal and represents an important transition resource from fossil fuels to renewables. We are also including a carbon price in new project development plans to encourage efficiency and we continue to invest in low-carbon renewable energies.
Since 2005, BP has invested more than $5 billion in its alternative energy businesses and we expect to invest a further $1 billion in 2011 to participate in the rapidly growing low-carbon energy markets. We are focusing investment on lower-carbon options that best match our core strengths and future market growth. Our biofuels business is well positioned to address opportunities in a rapidly growing sector. We are also investing in low-carbon power, including a substantial and growing wind business based in the US.
While it is ultimately for governments to determine the pace of transition to a lower-carbon  economy, BP is committed to making a progressive contribution. In my experience, BP and its employees feel as strongly about the long-term sustainability of the world as anyone else, and we want to play our part in addressing the complex issues involved.

Sustainable value
2010 shook BP to its core. To those who ask if we truly understand the implications, let me say firmly that ¡®we get it¡¯. We understand that business-as-usual is not an option, and we are making substantial changes to the way we work.
I hope the actions I have outlined show that, after a profoundly difficult year, BP is addressing its weaknesses and enhancing its strengths. Our goal is to rebuild this company so it can create value safely and sustainably. I know the readers of this report will hold us to that objective and
I welcome your interest and scrutiny.

Bob Dudley

Group Chief Executive
22 March 2011

---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- BP 2011
A letter from our group chief executive 
Reviewing his first full year as group chief executive, Bob Dudley sets out the actions being taken to make BP a stronger, safer company


People have high expectations of BP ? from our shareholders, employees and partners to our customers and the communities in which we operate. Expectations have been raised even higher since the Deepwater Horizon accident and oil spill. During 2011, I visited
16 countries in addition to the UK, and had many frank discussions about BP¡¯s role and responsibilities. It is clear that what we do matters to people, and that open communication is valued ? and expected.
The employees of BP are working with great determination to make BP a stronger, safer company. We have set three clear priorities ? safety must be enhanced, trust earned back, and greater value delivered to our shareholders. We know we don¡¯t have all the answers, but we will keep learning and striving for continuous improvement. We will do our best to keep you informed.
This Sustainability Review is part of our engagement with the wider world. Inside, we report on the measures we are taking with the aim of meeting our responsibilities.

Meeting our responsibilities in the Gulf of Mexico
BP has been working closely with local communities and government agencies on the restoration of the Gulf Coast. During the year, we continued to meet our commitments to those affected. All legitimate claims for compensation have been, and will continue to be met. By the end of 2011, $7.8 billion had been paid for claims, advances and other payments. On 3 March 2012 we announced a settlement with the Plaintiffs¡¯ Steering Committee, subject to final written agreement and court approvals, to resolve the substantial majority of legitimate economic loss and medical claims made by individual and business plaintiffs in the Multi-District Litigation proceedings pending in New Orleans (MDL 2179). The legal process continues with other parties.
Throughout the year, BP helped promote two industries vital to the success of the region ? tourism and seafood. I am heartened that visitors have returned, with some areas reporting record seasons. And it was a great moment for the region when the final area of previously-closed federal fishing waters in the Gulf was reopened for commercial fishing in April 2011.
As part of our commitment to environmental restoration, BP is providing up to $1 billion for early restoration projects designed to accelerate efforts to restore natural resources that were injured as a result of the accident.
We are also contributing $500 million over 10 years to support independent research to create a better understanding of the Gulf ecosystem and help the industry and others prevent and mitigate the potential impacts of oil spills in the region and elsewhere.
We have co-operated with all external investigations into the accident and spill. The official reports to date have supported the core conclusion of our own investigation.
Namely, that this was a complex accident that involved multiple parties and had multiple causes. We still have a challenging period ahead of us. The legal processes around the incident are complex. The exact shape, form and timetable are not yet clear.

Enhancing safety, earning back trust
2011 saw us voluntarily implement enhanced standards on drilling in the Gulf of Mexico and other deepwater operations. We were pleased to receive the go-ahead from the US government to resume drilling and, by year-end, we had five rigs running.
Of course, the changes being made to enhance the way we work are not limited to the Gulf Coast. For example, we strengthened our risk management systems and processes throughout the company. We hired people from high-hazard sectors ? including nuclear energy, chemicals and the military ? to deepen the expertise of our safety and operational risk function. And we put in place new approaches to oil spill response and containment. Our teams have designed a new type of capping stack, which stands ready for deployment in the event of a leak in deep water anywhere in the world.
As we move forward, we will maintain a relentless focus on safety and risk management, and we will support the adoption of new standards across our industry. In 2011, our teams went to 25 countries and shared with regulators and industry peers the lessons we have learned.

Creating value, meeting demand
We expect the continuation of strong growth in the world¡¯s most dynamic economies to drive even greater demand for energy. The BP Energy Outlook 2030 projects that global energy demand could grow by as much as 40% by 2030.
This is based on expected long-term trends in demand and supply, as well as the potential evolution of economic, political and technological factors. That¡¯s the equivalent of adding one more China and one more US to world energy consumption. Energy that is affordable, secure and accessible will be needed to maintain the momentum of growth in developing economies.
While we feel a strong responsibility to help meet this growing demand, we also share widespread concerns about the rising global CO2 emission levels that it implies.
BP supports government action to limit emissions and deliver a sustainable energy mix, including placing a price on carbon, increasing energy efficiency and providing transitional incentives that enable renewable energy to become competitive at scale.
We are contributing towards a lower- carbon future in several ways: by producing natural gas at scale as a cleaner alternative in power generation; by providing fuels and
lubricants that improve vehicle efficiency; by driving efficiency in our own operations; by building commercial-scale renewable energy businesses in biofuels and wind; and by supporting a range of small, lower-carbon businesses as part of our venturing activity. However, we are moving out of the solar business as it has become a low-margin commodity market and is no longer aligned with our business strategy.
The search for energy resources will not get any easier. Deepwater drilling; unconventional gas; oil sands; giant fields ? there are tough technical, environmental and social challenges ahead in every area. Technology has a particularly helpful role to play in the safe and sustainable development of energy resources. It is also essential to acknowledge that our work will always involve some risk, and that we must keep focused on managing the risks inherent in our business.

Looking ahead
We are clear on our responsibilities. We want to be recognized as a good corporate citizen that can be trusted by everyone involved in, or affected by, what we do. The nature of our business demands that we keep working to strengthen safety and risk management.
Our refreshed values, code of conduct and strategy are designed to do just that, as well as create value for our shareholders. We will seek to report clearly and be always ready to listen to other points of view. I believe that by helping to meet the world¡¯s energy needs in a responsible and sustainable way, a stronger and safer BP will be a powerful contributor to growth and progress.

Bob Dudley

Group Chief Executive
21 March 2012

----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Supplementary Information 

Our strategy and sustainability
BP¡¯s objective is to create value for shareholders by helping to meet the world¡¯s growing energy needs safely and responsibly

We strive to be a safety leader in our industry, a world-class operator, a responsible corporate citizen and a good employer. We are working to enhance safety and risk management, earn back trust and grow value.
Keeping a relentless focus on safety is a top priority for us. Rigorous management of risk helps to protect the people at the frontline, the places in which we operate and the value we create. We understand that operating in politically-complex regions and technically-demanding geographies, such as deep water and oil sands, requires particular sensitivity to local environments. We continue to enhance our systems, processes and standards, including how we manage contractors.
We can only operate if we maintain the trust of people inside and outside the company. We must earn people¡¯s trust by being fair and responsible in everything we do. We monitor our performance closely and aim to report in a transparent way.
We believe good communication and open dialogue are vital if we are to meet the expectations of our employees, customers, shareholders and the local communities in which we operate.
We are working to become a simpler business, with a clear focus on what we do best. Our distinctive capabilities include exploration, operations in deep water, the managing of giant fields and gas value chains, and our world-class downstream business ? underpinned by technology and relationships. Strong financial performance is vital, because it enables us to make the investments necessary to produce the energy that society requires, as well as to reward and maintain the support of our shareholders. By supplying energy, we support economic development and help to improve quality of life for millions of people. Our activities also generate jobs, investment, infrastructure and revenues for governments and local communities.
Our portfolio includes lower-carbon options with the potential to make a significant contribution, now and in the future.


