------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Shell 2004

Message from the Group Chief Executive

It was a year of real contrasts for us, in which we delivered record earnings and also faced up to the challenge of addressing the very difficult issues that arose from the recategorisation of our proved reserves. We took important steps to rebuild trust and lay the foundation  for our future business success, making major improvements to the way we book reserves, proposing far reaching changes to the way we are governed and making progress implementing our business strategy.

The events of the last year have only reinforced my belief that making sustainable development an integral part of how we do our business is critical for our future success. The growth
of energy companies in the decades ahead will depend on their ability to operate with integrity and to listen and respond to society’s expectations  for their operations and products.

Sustainable development starts with the safety of our people.
I am pleased with the improvements to our safety performance in 2004, and in particular the progress made through our road safety programmes. However, I deeply regret that two employees and 35 contractors lost their lives at work. Of these fatalities,
18 were caused by road accidents or security incidents. Improving our safety performance remains a top priority.

Sustainable development also means improving our environmental and social performance. Over the past few years, we have made challenging and, in several cases, industry-leading commitments in areas like biodiversity, reducing our greenhouse gas emissions, and ending the continuous flaring of gas. The progress we made on these in 2004 represents a lot of hard work. It is also clear
to me that we cannot take our eye off the ball, particularly
in Nigeria where we expect delays in our programme to end continuous flaring. Implementing our commitments will continue to require attention and focus over the coming years.

We continued our efforts to understand better and manage the impacts we have on the communities where we operate. Our Oil Products business met its target to have social performance plans in place at the 28 major facilities it operates near communities
in 2004. We increased our efforts to improve environmental performance and rebuilt relationships at several locations where we had lost the trust of our neighbours. I am pleased to see the strong relationships with the local community at Norco.

Contributing to sustainable development also involves helping to meet the world’s growing demand for energy in more environmentally and socially responsible ways. We continued to develop and provide cleaner products for customers,  for example launching cleaner burning V-Power transport fuels in the United States, making more than 40 countries where we offer premium quality fuel.

This report has again been prepared in line with the Global Reporting Initiative guidelines. I believe it represents a balanced and reasonable presentation of our organisation’s economic, environmental and social performance.

I hope it helps you to judge our performance for yourself.

Jeroen van der Veer
Group Chief Executive



“This report describes our efforts in 2004 to live up to our commitment to contribute to sustainable development.”

------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Shell 2005

INTRODUCTION FROM THE CHIEF  EXECUTIVE

Welcome to The Shell Sustainability  Report, 2005.  This report is part of our continuing dialogue with stakeholders.  It looks back at our environmental
and social performance in 2005.  It outlines our commitment  to helping  meet the world’s future energy needs. And it describes our efforts to fulfil this commitment in environmentally and socially responsible ways.

For Shell, 2005  was a year of recovery. Soaring global demand for oil and gas meant high prices and record profits. We continued to put most of our profits back into our business. We have more than doubled our investment level since 2002  to help meet growing demand for energy, diversify oil and gas supplies, reduce environmental impacts of fossil fuels, and develop alternatives.

Last year I saw the real willingness of Shell people to listen, to learn, and to work with stakeholders, sometimes in very challenging  conditions.  In Nigeria, for example, we made good progress
in the programme  to end continuous flaring, and continued to improve our community development activities, by working more closely with local people and development  experts.  I am saddened that the deteriorating  security situation may make progress in both these areas harder in 2006.  The massive Sakhalin  II project  in Russia also showed  a real commitment to working with others, from independent whale experts to local indigenous people. The project  took important steps to reduce impacts and respond to stakeholders’ concerns.

I was particularly proud of our people’s efforts to help local communities and repair vital energy infrastructure after the Asian tsunami, the earthquakes in Pakistan and India, and the hurricanes in the US Gulf of Mexico. Being  the first major company to return its operations  to New Orleans  after the hurricanes exemplifies for me our deep commitment to the communities where we operate.

There is more to be done. We need to strengthen our safety culture further if our performance is to continue to improve,  using the three Golden Rules we introduced last year. I deeply regret that three employees  and 33 contractors  lost their lives at work in 2005.  Ten of these fatalities occurred  in road accidents, despite our major programmes in this area. Relationships with our neighbours can still break down, even in new projects like Corrib in Ireland.

Continuing to rebuild  the trust of local communities and improving safety performance are two areas of focus in 2006.  A third is making progress with managing greenhouse gas emissions, including efforts to capture and store carbon dioxide that can help us develop  greener  fossil fuels.

The progress we have made in 2005,  and the commitment, professionalism and integrity of the Shell people, make me confident that we set the right priorities  for 2006:  “delivery and growth”.

As I discuss  in an interview on page four, I am more convinced  than ever that our short- and long-term business success depend on finding environmentally and socially responsible ways to help meet the world’s future energy needs.

I hope this report helps you judge for yourself how well we are doing in helping to meet the energy challenge.

Jeroen van der Veer 
Chief Executive




We commit to contribute to sustainable development.  This requires balancing short - and long-term interests, and integrating economic, environmental and social considerations into business decision-making.
Shell General Business Principles, revised 2005

“I am more convinced  than ever that our short -  and long- term business success depend on finding environmentally and socially responsible ways to help meet the world’s future energy needs.”
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Shell 2006

Introduction from the Chief Executive

Welcome to The Shell Sustainability  Report, which describes our efforts in 2006 to help meet the global energy challenge.

As the Report explains, this challenge has three parts: to provide the massive amount of extra energy needed to fuel development and reduce poverty; to keep supplies secure from disruption; and to do this in socially and environmentally  responsible ways. Helping meet this challenge, while continuing to provide competitive ?nancial returns, is at the heart of the commitment we made in 1997 to contribute to sustainable development.

Delivery and growth were our priorities for 2006. We delivered strong ?nancial and operational performance, earning more than $26 billion and adding approximately two billion barrels to our proven oil, gas and mining reserves. Most of these pro?ts are being re-invested in our business. They are being used to develop new projects to meet future energy needs, to improve safety and environmental performance at our facilities, and to develop new energy technologies. For example, we increased our spending on research and development by 50% last year.

Last year showed, once again, how important good environmental and social performance is to our business success. Good performance has to start with personal and process safety. Without a strong safety culture, all other aspects of our culture will erode.

Addressing concerns about climate change is also a critical task. I have said repeatedly that, for us, the debate about CO2’s impact on the climate is over. I am pleased at how our people are responding to my call to ?nd ways to mitigate CO2  impacts from fossil fuels. Our focus is on what we can do to reduce CO2 emissions. We are determined to ?nd better, lower-cost ways to capture and store CO2.

In 2006, wide-ranging efforts to address local concerns and rebuild trust meant we could restart construction at our gas project in Ireland (page 26). In Russia, a protocol to partner with Gazprom helped clear the way for the Sakhalin II project to complete construction and for the joint venture to meet its environmental and social commitments (page 34). In Nigeria, we shut down approximately half our production in the Delta region because of the security situation that made it impossible for us to protect our staff and contractors there (page 32).

We further standardised our approach to managing environmental and social impacts, and did more to learn from our successes and failures. For example, we introduced our ?rst global Code of Conduct (page 21), and increased our focus on sustainable development at the earliest stages of new upstream projects. Our Project Academy, established in 2005 to strengthen the skills of our Project Managers, is making good progress. All our major facilities with communities nearby are using standardised social performance plans.

This year’s Sustainability  Report includes a strong call for governments to act. That is because, as I discuss in an interview on page 4, leading companies and environmentally conscious consumers cannot meet the energy challenge on their own. Governments must set the framework to encourage the massive investments needed in new energy projects, in cleaner technologies and in conservation.

This Report has bene?ted signi?cantly from the scrutiny and advice of our independent External Review Committee (pages 38?39). As in any dialogue, there will not always be agreement on all points, but the signi?cant changes we have made as a result of their feedback have strengthened our reporting.

I hope this Report, and the additional information on our website, helps you judge for yourself how well we are acting on our commitment to meet the world’s energy needs in environmentally and socially responsible ways.

Jeroen van der Veer
CHIEF EXECUTIVE


About Shell
WHO WE ARE AND WHAT  WE DO
We are a global group of energy and petrochemicals companies, operating in more than 130 countries and employing approximately 108,000 people.

Our business is divided into:

UPSTREAM
Our two upstream businesses, Exploration & Production and Gas & Power:
? Search for and produce oil and natural gas.
? Liquefy and transport natural gas.
? Market and trade natural gas and electricity.
? Convert natural gas to cleaner transport fuels and other products.
? Develop business opportunities for our proprietary coal gasi?cation technology.

DOWNSTREAM
Our two downstream businesses, Oil Products and Chemicals:
? Re?ne crude oil to produce a range of fuels, lubricants and chemical feedstocks.
? Trade and ship crude oil and re?ned products around the world.
? Supply and distribute petrol, diesel and other re?ned products through a network of storage facilities, pipelines and road tankers.
? Market petrol, diesel and other fuels and lubricants for domestic, industrial and transportation use.
? Blend, distribute and market transport biofuels.
? Produce and sell petrochemicals to global industrial customers.

RENEWABLES, HYDROGEN  AND  CO2
? Develops businesses based on renewable sources of energy, including wind and solar power.
? Develops business opportunities in hydrogen technology.
? Co-ordinates research into mitigating carbon dioxide (CO2) emissions, including CO2  capture and storage.

------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Shell 2007
Introduction from the chief executive

Welcome to The Shell Sustainability Report. It describes our efforts in 2007 to live up to our commitment to contribute to sustainable development.  For us that means helping meet the world’s growing energy needs in economically, environmentally and socially responsible ways. This includes both running our operations responsibly today and helping to build a responsible energy system for tomorrow.

This focus on responsible energy is more important than ever. Our latest Strategic Energy Scenarios make clear ? and events in 2007 again con?rmed ? that the world faces increasingly di?cult energy choices. Demand for energy grew strongly, increasing pressure on supplies and prices. Energy-producing countries continued to assert greater control over resources, reinforcing fears in many energy-consuming countries about the security of their supplies. Concerns rose further about the threat of climate change.

Against this backdrop, it is clear that sustainable development is critical to everyone’s future and to our business success. Tomorrow’s projects will be even more di?cult, complex and capital-intensive. All will bring environmental and social challenges, with climate change foremost among them. Shell’s ability to develop new technologies  and to manage these projects in ways that reduce impacts and deliver local bene?ts in the communities  where we work, will be vital to winning new business and delivering existing projects.

We are continuing from a position of strength. In 2007, we reported record income of $31.9 billion. We are reinvesting record amounts back into the business and strengthening our capacity to manage environmental and social impacts. Our safety performance ? always our ?rst priority ? improved, though it must get better still. We decided to quadruple our rate of investment in transport biofuels, particularly in those using more sustainable second-generation technologies. Work continued to meet our aim of having the capability to capture and store carbon dioxide (CO2) ? a promising  way to manage greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions.

We made good progress on our natural gas project in Corrib, Ireland and got approval for the expansion of the Motiva Port Arthur re?nery in the USA. Our work on community relations remains vital to the success of both projects. With the purchase of the minority shares in Shell
Canada we consolidated our position as a leader in the responsible development of oil sands ? an increasingly important energy resource.

We continued our push to provide products that help our customers improve their fuel e?ciency, demonstrating our determination to help consumers use less energy. Emissions of GHGs  from our facilities continued to fall.

In 2007, we also had our share of disappointments. The security situation in Nigeria remained di?cult. As a result, production  stayed shut in and our programme to eliminate gas ?aring from all our operations has been delayed. In Alaska, exploration  activities were also delayed. I hope we will see progress in both these activities in the coming year.

I would like to thank the members of the report’s External Review Committee  for their valuable contribution.  Their strong and insightful comments on early drafts of this report challenged our thinking.
They encouraged us to be more open about our assumptions, and to explain why we are making the choices we are. This input was important  in shaping the ?nal text and helped us explain our e?orts to encourage governments to build the international policy framework needed for change.

I hope this report ? and the supporting materials that can be found on our website ? will help you judge for yourself how well we are living up to our commitment to contribute to sustainable development. I also hope it encourages you to re?ect on the part you play in the energy system and the changes all of us need to make to build a responsible energy future.

Jeroen van der Veer
CHIEF EXECUTIVE

------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Shell 2008

Welcome to the 2008 Shell Sustainability Report. It describes our efforts to contribute to sustainable development in what was, for all of us, an exceptionally turbulent year.

The financial crisis and the economic recession it triggered affected people around the world. The downturn is expected to bite deeper in 2009. Oil prices plunged by more than $100 from a record high of around $145 a barrel in July.

Our response has been to intensify our drive to reduce costs while continuing to improve our performance and invest in the big projects that will deliver more energy and growth. We have learned from past recessions how important it is to do all three. We must stay on course. Critical things like safety, which is always our first priority, energy efficiency and social performance need constant focus. We must also keep the long-term view. With rising greenhouse gas concentrations and more than 3 billion more energy users by 2050, the energy challenge is here to stay. The world will need much more and much cleaner energy in the decades to come, and supplies will struggle to keep up. Meeting that challenge will require steady investment in new production capacity and new technologies. Stopping and starting at each phase of the business cycle will not work.

In 2008, we invested a record $32 billion net of proceeds from divestments, and expect to maintain these levels in 2009. We pressed ahead steadily with our major growth projects. They will help meet energy needs for many years to come. For example, Sakhalin II began commissioning year-round oil production and was preparing to start exports of liquefied natural gas (LNG) in 2009. Construction moved ahead on the Pearl GTL project in Qatar, on the expansion of the Motiva Port Arthur Refinery in the USA, on the Shell Eastern Petrochemicals Complex in Singapore, and on the expansion of the Athabasca Oil Sands Project in Canada. Progress on these projects has depended on mitigating environmental impacts and earning the trust of local communities.

The same is true in Nigeria, where conditions remained difficult. Security and funding problems meant we were unable to make significant further progress on our programme to end continuous flaring onshore in the Niger Delta. Despite the difficulties we did manage to start up the AFAM VI power plant. It will increase the country’s electricity supply by a fifth.

Our focus on managing CO2 emissions remained strong. We continued to reduce the greenhouse gas emissions from the facilities we control or operate. These emissions have fallen by more than 30% since 1990, largely because of operational improvements like reduced flaring. We are involved in a number of demonstration projects for technology to capture and store CO2 safely underground, including the first research pilot in Europe to inject CO2 onshore. We would like these projects to move ahead faster and are working with governments to help them put the policies and incentives in place to speed up the development of this critical technology. We also continued to roll out advanced lubricants and transport fuels, like Shell Fuel Economy (and in 2009 Shell FuelSave), that can help drivers improve their fuel efficiency.

While our primary focus continues to be delivering oil and natural gas responsibly, we also made progress developing renewable energy. Wind is currently our largest business in this area. In 2008, we increased our wind capacity by nearly a quarter to 550MW, enough to power nearly 250,000 households. We will now concentrate on continuing to operate our existing wind farms reliably and safely, rather than expanding our portfolio further. For the next few years, we will
be stepping up our efforts in sustainably sourced transport biofuels with good CO2 performance. This will be the area of focus for our renewable energy activities. In 2008, we continued rolling out our sustainable sourcing safeguards with our biofuel suppliers and increased our stake in advanced biofuels company Iogen Energy to 50%.

I would like to thank the members of the Report’s External Review Committee for their valuable contributions. Their straightforward and insightful comments on early drafts of the Report again this year forced us to think more critically about the choices we make and how to report on them effectively to our stakeholders.

In mid-2009, after some five years as Chief Executive, I shall hand over to Peter Voser, currently our Chief Financial Officer. I wish Peter every success. I would also like to thank our people for the tremendous effort, dedication and passion they have shown. I am proud of the way they are embracing the sustainable development mindset and am convinced this will serve Shell well in the challenging times ahead.

Jeroen van der Veer 
CHIEF EXECUTIVE


“WE MUST STAY ON  COURSE. CRITICAL THINGS LIkE SAFETY… ENERGY EFFICIENCY AND  SOCIAL PERFORMANCE NEED CONSTANT FOCUS. AND WE MUST KEEP THE LONG-TERM VIEW.  THE ENERGY CHALLENGE IS HERE TO STAY.”

------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Shell 2009
Introduction from the CEO

I am honoured to introduce the Shell Sustainability Report for 2009. it was a landmark year for the world with the un climate change conference taking place in copenhagen. my view is that the outcome offered a good starting point for greater action. but i will come to that later.

The business challenges we face are clear in our reduced earnings for the year. there were many positive achievements, however, reflecting our drive and determination to meet energy demand through technology and innovation applied in the right way: with respect for communities and the environment. development of new fields and increased production at existing projects helped offset the decline of our older fields. The reliability of our refineries improved. crucially in these tough economic conditions, we reduced underlying costs by more than $2 billion in 2009 and identified further savings of $1 billion in 2010. our safety record in 2009 was our best to date ? i expect everyone who works for Shell, employee and contractor alike, to keep building on this excellent progress.

Our greenhouse gas emissions fell further. this was mainly due to reduced activity in our refineries and chemical plants as well as forced production shutdowns in nigeria. but our investments and improvements in energy efficiency in many of our operations also played a role. We have programmes in place to step up these improvements.

Securing Energy
In 2009, our delivery of major projects remained on course. we started production from the deep-water parque das conchas oil field off brazil, and our perdido development in the gulf of mexico moved towards first production in early 2010. Sakhalin ii started production of liquefied natural gas (lng) in Russia’s far east. In Qatar, our pearl gas-to-liquids and Qatargas 4 lng projects will complete major construction around the end of 2010. In downstream, we started up the first of several new advanced processing units at the Shell eastern petrochemicals complex in Singapore.

We agreed a contract to develop iraq’s majnoon field as operators. iraq poses many challenges, including safety and the possible social impact of helping to develop the country’s resources. We will draw on our experience of operating in other difficult environments to tackle these challenges.

Our operations and projects in Nigeria moved forward, with afam vi contributing substantially to the country’s electricity supply and the okoloma plant increasing gas supplies. the gbaran-ubie oil and gas project is on track to start production in the next 12 months. we agreed to sell our interest in several leases in the niger delta to nigerian companies, subject to government approval. I believe this will provide an opportunity to further develop local skills. the security situation, however, meant that the operating environment in Nigeria continued to be difficult.

Our oil sands expansion project in Canada made good progress. It will use new technology that will save energy ? reducing carbon dioxide (CO2) emissions ? and water.

Time to Act
Climate change remains a huge global challenge, of course. For the first time, the countries that emit the most CO2 recognized in Copenhagen the need to work towards a new, low-carbon energy future. Shell will continue to work with governments to help develop the regulatory frameworks we believe are vital to establish a price for CO2 that allows companies to invest in energy efficiency, new low-CO2 products and carbon capture and storage (ccS). but while we work towards that aim, we must also focus sharply on what we can deliver now.

Our production of cleaner-burning and cost-effective natural gas has been rising for many years and will be over half our total energy output by around 2012. Natural gas can be both a bridge to a low-carbon energy future and a central part of the future energy mix. a modern gas-fired power plant emits half the CO2 of a modern coal plant when generating the same amount of electricity ? and it costs less than half to build. In ccS, we are involved in a number of projects to develop this essential technology. We are also helping our customers use less energy by developing more advanced fuels and lubricants. Low-carbon biofuels offer one of the best and more immediate commercial options to reduce CO2 from transport fuels. In 2009 we signed a non-binding memorandum of understanding with cosan to form a joint venture in brazil for ethanol production from sugar cane, the biofuel that currently produces the least CO2. We are also investing to develop more advanced biofuels for the future.

Challenge ahead
I would like to thank the members of the external Review committee for their valuable contribution to this year’s Shell Sustainability Report. Once again, they provided critical comments on early drafts which urged us to think harder about our performance in sustainable development and how we report on our progress. We know there is still room for improvement. We take to heart all the lessons we learn and will apply them as we move forward.

I believe sustainable development works best when it is thoroughly integrated in our business decisions at the very earliest opportunity. Under the reorganization of Shell that began when I became CEO in July 2009, we embedded sustainable development firmly in our businesses. This means that safety, environmental and social performance are now closer to the core of our business plans and decisions.

That is exactly how it must be if we are to meet the complex challenges ahead in the most effective and responsible way.

Peter Voser
Chief Executive Officer

------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Shell 2010

Introduction from the CEO

Welcome to the Shell Sustainability Report for 2010. In this report we show how consideration for safety, the environment and communities lies at the core of our operations and the development of our future energy projects.

The event that dominated the year for our industry showed the critical importance of getting our approach to safety right. The BP Deepwater Horizon incident in the Gulf of Mexico and the oil spill that followed will have repercussions for many years to come.

The incident became an environmental disaster that affected communities, but it began as a tragic accident: 11 people died, and others were seriously injured. Safety has always been the first priority at Shell. A major incident like this serves as a warning to all to guard against complacency.

It will take time for our industry to recover credibility. But I believe Shell’s technical expertise, safety culture and rigorous global standards demonstrate that we are capable of operating responsibly, however challenging the conditions.

S E C U R I N G C L E A N E R , D I V E R S E  E N E R GY 
With the world now out of recession, energy demand is again increasing. All energy sources will be needed to meet this demand, but in the decades ahead the bulk of the world’s energy is expected to continue to come from fossil fuels. Producing oil and gas from deep waters will remain crucial.
These resources are a vital part of the secure and diverse supplies of energy the world will need, as are energy resources from other technically challenging environments. Shell’s responsible approach and continued investment in technology and innovation will help us to deliver this energy.

As an energy company we must meet our customers’ needs, and our ability to work with joint-venture partners helps us to do this. In 2010 a number of our major projects came on-stream or continued to perform well. Others approached completion for start-up in 2011. We continued to raise our production of natural gas ? by far the cleanest-burning fossil fuel ? that will account for over half our energy output in 2012. We believe natural gas will play an essential role in managing the carbon dioxide (CO2) emissions caused by the world’s rising energy demand.

Tackling climate change remains urgent and requires action by governments, industry and consumers. The UN climate change conference in Cancun, Mexico, produced a more encouraging outcome than expected. But with so many countries involved, the process of addressing climate change through international agreements is inevitably slow.

At Shell we believe that in making our contribution, there is no time to waste. We are working on what we can do today to contribute to a sustainable energy future: producing more natural gas for power generation; focusing on sustainable biofuels; helping to develop carbon capture and storage technology; and making our own operations more energy efficient. Our advanced fuels and lubricants are helping our customers save energy.

S U STA I N A B L E  P R I N C I P L E S
Delivering energy involves meeting other complex sustainability challenges. Strong principles and building trust underpin our approach. Respect for human rights, for example, is embedded in the Shell General Business Principles. Shell contributed to the work of Professor John Ruggie, the UN special representative for business and human rights, whose guiding principles were published in early 2011. The grievance mechanism at the Sakhalin 2 liquefied natural gas project in Russia formed part of Professor Ruggie's pilot work on grievance procedures. We plan to introduce similar approaches for communities near other major projects and facilities in the coming years.

In Nigeria, Shell Petroleum Development Company (SPDC) took a significant step forward in transparency for our industry. SPDC has set up a publicly accessible website to report on oil spills from the facilities it operates. This allows the tracking of the response to every spill, whether it is operational or the result of sabotage or theft.

I am proud to have signed up to the UN Global Compact LEAD, an initiative which reinforces the commitment of business to the principles of the Global Compact. Shell was a founding member of the Global Compact in 2000 and we support its principles in human rights, labour, environment and anti- corruption. The Sustainability Report 2010 reports on our progress in these areas.

I would like to thank the members of the External Review Committee for their important contributions in producing the Sustainability Report 2010. Once more their valuable insights have helped shape this report.

Finally, I invite you to send your comments on the report to:
sustainabilityreport@shell.com

Peter Voser
Chief Executive Officer



“AT SHELL WE BELIEVE THAT IN MAKING OUR CONTRIBUTION, THERE IS NO TIME TO WASTE. WE ARE WORKING ON WHAT WE CAN DO TODAY TO CONTRIBUTE TO A SUSTAINABLE ENERGY FUTURE.”


--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Royal Dutch Shell PLC 2011

Welcome to the Shell Sustainability Report for 2011.

It was a year of continued economic turbulence that once again showed how placing sustainable development at the core of our business decisions is the right approach. This means putting consideration for safety, the environment and communities at the centre of the steps we take to design, build and operate major energy projects. The energy we provide must be produced and delivered in the right way.

Sustainability depends on our ability to build resilience into our plans and operations. We have to make sure Shell remains able to tackle future challenges so that we, in turn, can continue to make a positive contribution to society. We know that doing business responsibly helps us achieve this through greater productivity and by creating benefits for all. We can deliver our projects more effectively, increase production faster, supply our customers with products more efficiently, and create supply chains and jobs for local businesses. It is a situation where everyone wins.

Global challenges

With tough economic conditions prevailing, and momentous social change taking place in some countries, the world must not lose sight of longer-term challenges.

There are now 7 billion people in the world, and we are on our way to 9 billion by 2050. In the decades to come, major economies will continue to consume energy to grow. In developing countries many people will become wealthier, buying their first television, refrigerator or car. In short, the world will need more energy.

Fossil fuels will still provide the bulk of this energy with, we believe, a greater role to play for cleaner-burning natural gas. Renewable energy, including low-carbon biofuels for transport, will also increase steadily. But Shell believes we cannot view energy supply and demand in isolation. As the world becomes more crowded, the stresses between the essentials of life ? water, food and energy ? will become more critical. Energy production needs water, and providing enough water and food to sustain people needs energy. Climate change is likely to intensify the stresses.

These are huge, integrated challenges and there is no time to waste if the world is to tackle them effectively. Yet the relationship between government, business and civil society is struggling to work. To build a sustainable energy system, we need a new level of collaboration and leadership to develop workable policies and solutions. We need vision and action. Major companies like ours can help encourage the global co-operation needed across public and private sectors, and across industries.

At Shell we believe that responsibly delivering cleaner, more reliable and affordable energy is the best contribution we can make today to a more stable world where economies can thrive. To do this we work with others including communities, other companies, governments, consumers and non-governmental organisations. But we know there is much work to do to meet the challenges of building a sustainable energy future.

Safety and principles

After the BP Deepwater Horizon tragedy in 2010, the energy industry rightly came under intense scrutiny. For Shell, safety remains our top priority. Our standards are rigorous. If things do not go as planned we respond swiftly and decisively, and we investigate all incidents to learn and improve our performance.

We prepare thoroughly to prevent incidents. In 2012, we intend to start exploration drilling in waters off Alaska.

We have worked closely with communities, coastguards and regulatory authorities to put the necessary safeguards in place. This collaborative effort has been invaluable. 

We believe transparency in our operations helps build trust. In Nigeria, for example, the Shell Petroleum Development Company (SPDC) launched a website in 2011 that enables people to track details of oil spills at its facilities, whether from operations or due to sabotage or theft, and how it deals with them. Nigeria faces many challenges. The best way to address them is a multi-party approach by government, communities, industry and others. SPDC is ready to play a key role in such an approach.

Shell was a founding member of the UN Global Compact and we support its principles in human rights, labour, environment and anti-corruption. We are also a signatory to the Global Compact LEAD, which reinforces the commitment of business to these principles. In this report you can read about our progress in these areas.

Once again I would like to thank the members of the External Review Committee for their valued contributions in producing the Sustainability Report 2011.
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Total 2004

Foreword by Thierry Desmarest
Chairman and Chief Executive Officer

This is Total’s third corporate social responsibility report. What does this process mean to you?

The CSR report is one of the most effective ways we have of expressing our commitment  to open dialogue with our partners and with civil society. People expect a lot from us because of the industry we’re in, our size, our financial clout and our geographic reach. We’re asked about our work practices, our ethical principles, our industrial safety performance, our environmental stewardship, and our contribution to employment, research and local development. People also want to know how we see the future of energy and of the climate.

It’s only natural that we respond by sharing our vision of the future and reporting on what we do. In addition, corporate social responsibility is driving continuous improvement,  since we have our own questions and problems. We need to hear what people from outside the organization have to say, so transparency, dialogue and feedback are critical to the way we exercise corporate social responsibility.

Why did oil and gas prices soar in 2004 and how will this affect your CSR process?

The increase stems from stronger than anticipated growth in world demand at a time when there is little spare production capacity and when conflicts or technical incidents in several regions have sparked fears of shortages. The tension, which has continued through early 2005,  is forcing people to look more carefully at the future of energy. Everyone knows that oil consumption cannot be allowed to continue to grow at the current pace, because resources are finite and the climate is under threat. Combined with the very favorable impact of higher prices on oil company earnings, this growing awareness is focusing the spotlight on the specific responsibilities of oil companies. Through our exploration operations, capital expenditure and innovation, we help to ensure a steady supply of oil and gas to the market. But we also have to help secure a future where sources of energy will be more diversified, available resources will be used more responsibly and their environmental impact will be better managed.

How is Total helping to secure the future of energy?

The transition from one energy to another takes place over several generations. Today, fossil fuels?oil,  gas and coal?  account for 80% of global energy demand, and their contribution will decline only slowly. Therefore, securing the future of energy consists in part of finding and developing new oil and gas reserves.

The fast growth in demand is raising complex technical challenges, such as optimizing production from existing fields, developing fields in ever-deeper water or extreme geographic conditions, making very viscous oil usable, and expanding the gas chain by creating large liquefaction  plants and the associated logistics. We already make a major contribution  to securing the future of energy just by doing our job right and maintaining our high capital expenditure commitment.

Energy sources will be more diversified in the future?something  we’ve anticipated through our long-standing exploration of renewable energies. We’re active in two areas of solar power?  manufacturing photovoltaic panels and installing them in sparsely populated areas. We’re also present in wind power, commissioning five high-power  wind turbines in Dunkirk, France, in 2003. Since then, we’ve responded to a number of tenders for new projects. In another area, we’ve created a pilot unit to test the use of hydrogen in the transportation segment. We’re also the leading French operator in biofuels and can track nuclear industry developments through our interest in Areva, France’s nuclear power specialist.

Given your business, you’re directly concerned by the issue of climate change. What’s your policy in this area?

We met our greenhouse gas emissions reduction targets in 2004,  one year ahead of time. That will let us move forward the definition of new, more ambitious targets. Two milestones with implications for our businesses were reached in 2004?  Russia’s ratification  of the Kyoto Protocol has finally enabled the agreement to come into force, while the European Union introduced  a trailblazing emissions trading scheme that is being deployed by companies in Member States. Last year, we also improved our processes for measuring emissions and are now setting up a trading system.

Climate change is a global issue that can only be resolved if the biggest emitting  countries cooperate. The Kyoto Protocol is a first step, but only covers one-third  of emissions. Now we have to develop a new framework  acceptable not only to the United States, but also to the biggest economies in transition, especially India and China, who don’t want to sacrifice their growth.

In this environment, I believe that energy efficiency?consuming  less energy for the same result?could  be a critical improvement driver. The potential savings are considerable and higher energy prices are a strong incentive. We’re performing  a detailed audit of ways to reduce energy consumption in our production facilities. We’re also willing to support campaigns encouraging consumers to be civic-minded  when they use energy.

Another auspicious area for strengthened international cooperation is research and innovation. There’s still a lot to do to develop technologies that generate fewer emissions, especially in the transportation segment, and to capture carbon dioxide emitted by large industrial facilities and sequester it in geological reservoirs. We’re closely involved in joint programs in these areas.

Non-OECD countries account for 60% of your oil and gas production. To what extent does Total feel a responsibility for their growth and the way they use their oil revenues?

This is an important issue for us. There are a lot of examples demonstrating  the complexity of the relationship between oil and development. But I think  that developing  a country’s oil and gas resources can promote the emergence of a modern industrial base and serve as a foundation for economic and social development.

We pay particular  attention to ensuring that our operations have a positive impact on host countries in terms of jobs, training and local sourcing. We look very closely at the potential impact of our operations on neighboring communities and work hand-in-hand with public authorities on these issues, making sure that we don’t interfere with their responsibilities. We also leverage the advice of development specialists. We participate, often through NGOs operating  in the field,  in initiatives  to enhance  local  health  care and education and to encourage the creation of sustainable businesses.

Although such support measures are important, they don’t address the fundamental issue of how host countries use their oil and gas revenues. Often, the lack of an appropriate public governance system means that the people concerned have no effective control over these revenues. That’s what makes the Extractive Industries Transparency Initiative, or E.I.T.I., so important. Transparent revenue streams are the cornerstone of genuine debate on development policy priorities.
We’ve supported the E.I.T.I. from the outset and are ready to help interested producing  countries move forward to implement  it. From this point of view, Nigeria’s implementation is an encouraging sign. How oil revenues are shared is a major source of tension in Nigeria, and the government’s pursuit of transparency will be critical to ensuring that these revenues serve development effectively.

To really uphold your principles, shouldn’t you stay out of countries where human rights are violated, such as Sudan and Myanmar?

Exploration operations in Sudan began in 1980,  but were suspended 20 years ago because of the civil war in the southern region of the country. Encouraged by genuine peace talks between the parties in the conflict, we recently updated contract terms to be able to resume operations if circumstances permit and if we can apply our principles  and Code of Conduct.
Provided that they take place in a settled political framework, oil operations that respect human rights can make a strong contribution  to Sudan’s stability and development.

Despite the criticisms aimed at Total in this area, the same belief underpins our continued presence in Myanmar. Unfortunately, the political climate has not yet improved, to say the least.
But our support for local development has continued to expand. In early 2005,  we helped to deploy a program to support and treat people living with HIV/AIDS in the Mandalay region.

What were your employee relations priorities in 2004?

The main priority was enhancing the diversity of our managers. Total’s international reach is reflected in the 130 nationalities represented in our management teams. But one major imbalance still has to be corrected?most  of our senior executives are still French men. We’ve introduced a number of action plans to enhance gender diversity, make our hiring more international, identify high potentials in our international subsidiaries and train local managers. As part of this process, in 2004  we created the Diversity Council, which is making practical recommendations and setting quantified  targets. In France, Total signed the Diversity Charter, which expresses the commitment of French companies to eradicating discrimination in hiring and career management.

Last year, we also worked to strengthen employee dialogue in Europe, signing a framework  agreement with our unions to create a European employee relations forum. This is the basis on which we’re conducting  negotiations concerning equal opportunity and the financial and social support programs implemented during restructuring,  and particularly the role intrapreneurial programs could play in the process.

Despite reporting record profits, you’re restructuring the Chemicals business, which entails job losses. Isn’t that something of a contradiction?

No matter how necessary, well prepared and carefully implemented,  restructuring  is always painful for everyone involved, whether employees, contractors or communities.
But to survive, you have to adapt to market and technological developments. Arkema’s vinyl products business operates in a highly competitive European market where there’s too much capacity. We have to restore the business’ competitiveness. Our financial health doesn’t change that fact, but it does mean that restructuring can be conducted under the best possible conditions. With our full financial backing, Arkema is therefore modernizing this segment, supported by a five-year, €300-million capital program without any plant closures or layoffs. The project includes financial and social measures to support the restructuring  of the Saint-Auban facility, facilitate transfers within the Group and sustain local employment.

Corporate social responsibility is a voluntary process. Is that enough? Shouldn’t it be governed by binding standards?

Of course rules are necessary. Our operations are subject to a wide variety of local legislation in most of our host countries, and we also comply with principles published by the OECD, the International  Labour Organization (ILO) and the Global Compact. But the voluntary commitment  of companies  to moving forward  is what underpins the steady improvement in practices. The way companies present their sustainable development performance is increasingly standardized, facilitating  analysis and comparison, thereby driving further improvement.
European companies have made significant  progress in this area, and I’m pleased. I believe that our genuine commitment to corporate social responsibility is a very important factor in ensuring Total’s long-term viability.

------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Total 2005
Foreword by Thierry Desmarest
Chairman and Chief Executive Officer

Total reported a record profit of €12 billion in 2005. What’s your response to critics?
Our earnings reflect not just soaring oil prices, but also the hard work of our teams across all three core businesses. They reward our expertise, the diversity of our international operations, and our investment strategy. Our size and solid financial base are strengths that enable us to compete successfully in an industry dominated by national oil companies in the leading producing countries. These strengths underpin our strategic independence and our long-term viability.

Where do the profits go? To enrich shareholders? Or else to investment projects or employees?
Our priority every year is to develop profitable new projects that will allow us to continue to grow production across our businesses. Our capital expenditure rose last year to $13.9 billion from $8 billion in 2002, and we plan to keep it that high for the foreseeable future.

Dividends and share buybacks gave shareholders a return on their investment of around 6% in 2005, in line with market expectations. That’s our way of rewarding their loyalty and thanking them for their confidence in Total.

Our employees benefit, too?80,000 of them own shares, accounting for close to 3.75% of the shareholder base at the end of first-quarter 2006. And our compensation and benefits policy gives all our employees a stake in our outstanding financial performance.

What about the people in your host countries? Do they benefit from higher oil and gas prices?
That’s an especially important question for us, since two- thirds of our oil and gas production now comes from non- OECD countries. Our presence has to generate tangible local benefits. We make sure that we contribute to the local economy through jobs, purchases of goods and services, training, and technology transfers.

In addition, our operations generate significant revenue for host countries, and the way it is spent is a major concern for them. Our upstream business will pay close to €11 billion in taxes for 2005. That’s why we support accurate information on payments. The Extractive Industries Transparency Initiative (EITI), which we back, is starting to pay off, and we’re currently helping several countries to prepare for the publication of their oil revenues. As well, our Code of
Conduct condemns bribery and corruption, and we make sure that we practice what we preach.
With the support of associations and in agreement with local authorities, we’re deploying a wide array of initiatives to benefit the communities near our facilities. We spent €90 million on outreach initiatives in 2005, of which €73 million in non-OECD countries, covering education, health, support for agriculture, support for startups, and other areas. Recent initiatives include an agreement signed in 2005 with Institut Pasteur to promote the prevention, diagnosis and treatment of infectious diseases in a variety of countries.

Oil and gas supply has had a hard time keeping up with demand in the last two years. Should we be getting ready for the post-oil era? What’s Total doing?

Shifting the global energy balance will take time. Oil and gas will continue to meet at least 60% of demand for decades to come. But if demand continues to grow at this pace, global production will peak sooner, not later, for geological reasons. By reining in world consumption, in particular by enhancing energy efficiency, and focusing oil on transportation and petrochemical applications, we’ll gain time to develop the alternative energies we’ll eventually need. While paying attention to managing our own energy consumption, we are also investing and innovating to develop non-conventional resources, such as deepwater reserves and extra-heavy crude oil. In addition, gas?particularly liquefied natural gas? will account for an increasing share of our production.

How is Total helping to diversify energy supply and develop renewable energies?

Today, Total is a European leader in biofuels. We are also well established in solar energy, as well as in wind power, where we were recently selected to build a 90 MW wind farm project in southern France. To help secure the future, a five- year, €500-million program was approved in 2005, covering renewable energies and new energy technologies such as fuel cells and processes to produce automotive fuel from syngas and biomass.

Securing the future of energy will require more diversified sources of energy, as well as advances in processes. We’ll be contributing our capacity to develop new technical solutions on an industrial scale.

You mentioned that oil and gas will continue to play a key role. But don’t their greenhouse gas emissions constitute a serious threat to the climate?

Balancing the use of oil and gas with protecting the climate is a critical challenge that requires a planet-wide response.  In late 2005, the United Nations Climate Change Conference in Montreal showed some tentative signs of convergence, although for the time being the only countries taking a disciplined approach to applying the Kyoto Protocol are the European Union member states.

We continued our work on managing emissions last year, focusing on enhancing the energy efficiency of our processes and, upstream, eliminating flaring of gas from our production operations. We are actively working on capturing and storing carbon dioxide and are taking part in a number of cooperative programs in this area, including an industrial pilot recently launched at the Lacq site in France.

There are risks associated with petroleum product and chemical production, storage and transportation. Tell us about Total’s industrial safety policy.

Our approach combines accurate analysis of technological risks and a safety culture that we want to be an automatic reflex. The safety of people, the integrity of our installations and the management of our logistics operations are critical factors in our industrial performance. We’ve made a lot of progress in the last five years, but there’s still a lot to be done. We aim to be among the best in class.

Should multinationals make a more direct commitment to human rights?

Although governments bear the primary responsibility for upholding human rights, companies can set an example that promotes human rights and encourages their respect. In countries where human rights are under threat, we have to be particularly vigilant. That’s why we keep communication channels open with civil society and local communities.
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Total 2006

Foreword

Chairman of the Board of Directors
by Thierry Desmarest

Our operations carry with them a number of specific obligations. In our businesses, ethical conduct and a continuous focus on industrial safety and environ- mental stewardship are givens. And with our exten- sive presence in  developing countries, we  place particular emphasis on ensuring that our activities contribute to their growth. As well, we have a direct stake in issues relating to the future of energy and the climate.
Addressing these critical issues should guide us all as we carry out our core mission, which is to pro- duce new oil and gas resources to meet constantly growing global demand, process them into petro- leum products and chemicals, and help to develop the energies of the future.
We can be proud of what we have already achieved and of the ongoing improvements in our corporate social responsibility performance, described in this, our fifth Corporate Social Responsibility Report. But we cannot and will not rest, given the scale of the challenges facing us, which include the pressing need to tackle climate change, our evolving relationship with produc- ing countries, and the necessary transition to more sustainable modes of energy consumption. Total can and should help to resolve these complex issues. This is why we are working with the other stakeholders and in partnership with governments, which are the only organizations with the authority to set the policy orientations that frame our initiatives.
Partnership and dialogue are the cornerstones of our idea of corporate social responsibility. They help us to adjust our continuous improvement process to real-world situations and expectations ? expectations that everyone at Total must strive to meet.


Interview with 
Chief Executive Officer
Christophe de Margerie

Given the scale of the challenges associ- ated with securing the future of energy, how is Total planning to meet growing energy demand?
Our core business is oil and gas, the most widely used energy sources in the world,  along  with  coal.  Because the structure of  demand will change only slowly, Total’s viability will for the fore- seeable future continue to be built on building block projects ? in exploration and production, the natural gas chain, refining and marketing, and chemicals ? that we are launching today and that we  have in reserve for  the  next two decades.
But for us, the future of energy entails the use of a more broadly diversified ar- ray of energies. That’s why we’re explor- ing the various options available to us. We’re interested in all forms of energy, provided that  our  capabilities can  be deployed usefully and profitably, while continuing  to  uphold  our  Code  of Conduct.

Which energy sources is Total focusing on for the long term?
In addition to our established presence in solar power and first-generation biofu- els, we have expanded more recently into wind energy. We’re also conducting R&D with different partners in areas such as biomass energy, synfuel production, more efficient photovoltaic systems and ocean energy. Total has a number of R&D centers that work with academic researchers worldwide, mainly on these new energies, whose development often depends on major technological break- throughs. Nuclear energy is also an option for the future, and we should be asking ourselves whether Total could play a role here.

Total is planning to grow its oil and gas production. Doesn’t that contradict your commitment    to    combating    climate change?
It’s a contradiction found on a planetary scale,  since  experts  predict  that  in
25 years’ time fossil fuel consumption will be 20 to 50% higher than today. One of our main challenges is to help reconcile this trend with protecting the climate. We have  to  reduce  the  greenhouse gas emissions generated by our production and  manufacturing  operations.  That means enhancing the energy efficiency of our processes and flaring less associ- ated gas. We are also working to devel- op products that generate fewer emis- sions to  help  reduce  our  customers’ footprint. In addition, we have to encour- age them to manage their consumption more efficiently. We’re also implement- ing a pilot carbon dioxide capture and sequestration project in Lacq, in south- western  France,  to  develop  efficient processes so that energy-intensive plants no longer emit CO2.

A number of important producing countries  are  closing  their  doors  to  the majors, while you’re experiencing com- petition  in  your  long-established  host regions from companies from emerging economies. If you want to maintain your ranking, won’t you have to make conces- sions concerning the places you operate and your business ethics?
Our reputation is based on our technical and environmental excellence, the ability to  manage large projects, compliance with our Code of Conduct and our spirit of  partnership. We firmly believe that these strengths will guarantee our con- tinued  competitiveness.  We  should never squander them through compro- mise.
Geology dictates  where  we  operate. This means that, provided there are no laws preventing it, we sometimes work in countries beset by internal conflict or whose governance is open to criticism. In such circumstances, we have to be particularly attentive to our contribution to local economic and social develop- ment and to human rights issues. Our presence in Myanmar, the way in which we conduct operations in certain regions currently experiencing unrest and  our potential return to Sudan mean that we have a good understanding of the com- plexity of these situations and what we can contribute.
New oil operators, for instance compa- nies from certain emerging economies, do not always feel bound to uphold the same principles as we do, and that can create problems or distort competition.
I think that partnering with them in some of our projects could be a good way of exposing them to our values so that they eventually share them.

Total has committed to becoming more transparent  regarding its financial rela- tionships with producing country govern- ments.  How  much  progress  has  been made and do you really think that oil proj- ects can contribute to development?
Total attaches great importance to the local benefits of our projects. We work in partnership with host country govern- ments and in liaison with local commu- nities  and  civil  society  stakeholders. However, we are aware of the problems that often  arise  concerning the way in which revenues are shared among the various public  communities and  the way they are  spent. We firmly believe that these revenues should serve the sustainable development of producing countries and help to eradicate poverty there. Financial transparency encour- ages good governance, which moves us  closer to  this  goal  more  quickly. That’s   why   we’ve   supported   the Extractive    Industries    Transparency Initiative  (EITI) since it was launched in
2002. Our teams have worked hard to promote it to our host governments and to  deploy it in cooperation with local authorities.
In early 2007,  we  disclosed financial information on  our operations in four Gulf of Guinea countries ? Cameroon, Angola, Nigeria, and Gabon.  I hope their example will encourage our other host countries to follow in their footsteps.

Current legal proceedings have brought the Erika and AZF back to center stage. What has Total learned from these dis- asters?
Although  painful and  etched  in  our memories, they have also provided us with  opportunities to  re-examine our practices and further refine our policies. Because of the Erika sinking, we are now less likely to take other participants in the shipping chain at their word and have  toughened our  charter  criteria, especially with regard to the age of ves- sels. In addition, we have  lobbied the industry to  substantially increase the funds available to compensate victims of oil slicks.
We are disappointed that the cause of the AZF disaster still has not been iden- tified. But we are continuing our unflag- ging  efforts  to  prevent  technological risks at our sites and to rank as best in class in terms of safety.

How  important  is  corporate  social re- sponsibility to Total’s strategy?
Corporate  social  responsibility should always underpin our technical and finan- cial analyses. We know that our opera- tions have an impact on the environment and  local  residents.  Accepting  our responsibility means recognizing that we play an important role in society, assert- ing  our  commitment  to  acting  as  a responsible global citizen, and willingly answering questions and responding to criticism.



“The future of energy entails the use of a more broadly diversified array of energies. ”

“We have to be particularly attentive to our contribution to local economic and social development and to human rights issues.”

------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Total 2007
Foreword

Every year, the Environment & Society, Our Corporate Responsibilities report gives us an opportunity to talk to stakeholders about how we address the multi-faceted challenges of our business.

Our principal responsibility is to meet the demand for energy on a sustainable basis. That primarily requires committing substantial capital expenditure and driving continuous innovation to grow our oil and natural gas production, while ensuring the safety and security of our employees, contractors and neighbors and constantly reducing our environmental footprint.

But we are also aware, like civil society, of the need to secure the longer-term future of energy. That’s why we are deeply involved in biomass and solar energy processes and are stepping up our R&D initiatives and industrial applications in these areas.

Energy and climate issues are inextricably interwoven, which means that we have to help to reconcile the objectives of today’s society, pursuing economic growth while protecting the climate for future generations. Fossil fuels play a central role in these divergent aspirations. Although they will continue to account for more than two-thirds of global energy supply for the foreseeable future, they are also the main source of carbon emissions from human activities. Faced with this predicament, we are assertively exploring two areas, energy management, in our own facilities and those of our customers, and technical solutions, such as CO2 capture and sequestration to reduce greenhouse gas emissions in the atmosphere.

Relationships between international oil companies and producing countries have changed. We have always paid close attention to ensuring that our activities deliver benefits for host countries, making sure that they contribute to their economic and social development.

As an engaged corporate citizen attuned to local aspirations, our core responsibility is to listen to our stakeholders and then creatively devise mutually beneficial solutions. This is the spirit that guided the partnerships we signed in 2007 with Venezuela and with Gazprom to develop the Shtokman field. We want our projects to create jobs and business for local contractors. We also want the tax revenue generated by these projects to flow transparently through to the treasury of our host countries.

For Total, being responsible means willingly facing up to the complex choices we must make, finding solutions to the problems we encounter, demonstrating professional discipline and unbending ethical conduct, delivering continuous improvements, informing, explaining, listening and dialoguing. Being responsible also means supporting all of our stakeholders ? employees, suppliers and service providers, customers, regions and neighboring communities. It means defending and helping to improve human rights in these communities. And it means making a tangible contribution to meeting expectations voiced, for example at France’s Grenelle Environmental Forum or by the European Commission after the Bali Conference.


Interview with Christophe de Margerie
Chief Executive Officer

Oil, natural gas and coal aren’t getting very good press these days, especially since their use releases the greenhouse gases that are threatening our climate. Aren’t future generations going to blame Total for continuing to increase fossil fuel production even though you were well aware of the risks?
The climate change issue is indeed pressing, but the world also needs more and more energy. And it so happens that today, 80% of demand is being met by oil, natural gas and coal. It will be ages before carbon-neutral energy sources overtake fossil fuels, so for now, there’s just no way around this contradiction. Admitting that doesn’t mean we’re somehow irresponsible; rather, it means we’re facing the facts and using them to develop actionable, real-world solutions. We’re helping to manage energy demand more efficiently, diversify supply and develop technical solutions that reduce greenhouse gas emissions. Our pilot CO2 capture and but finding and bringing them on stream does raise sequestration unit, scheduled to come on stream in late 2008 in Lacq, southwestern France, could enable thermal power plants, cement plants, refineries and other facilities to use fossil fuels without emitting carbon to the atmosphere. Spreading this technology would help to resolve part of the contradiction.

Total is committed to increasing production while also advocating more efficient energy management. Is that really a credible position?
Global energy demand is going to remain strong, because developing countries lag far behind industrialized nations. How can you justify dashing the hopes of the billion and a half people in the world who don’t have electricity, or crushing the aspirations of people who want to own a car in China or India, where there’s only one car per 50 or 100 inhabitants, compared with one for every two people in the West?
Total’s primary responsibility is to help meet this demand on a sustainable basis. That’s why we committed $16 billion in capital spending in 2007 and expect to invest $19 billion in 2008. I’m delighted, for example, that the offshore Dalia and Rosa fields were recently brought on stream in Angola and that the Dolphin gas project between Qatar and the United Arab Emirates has been commissioned. We have a host of other building block projects under way or planned in the oil, natural gas, refining, marketing and petrochemical segments, to meet demand and help to secure supply.
On the demand side, however, genuine efforts must be made to bring it under control for two reasons, to protect the climate and to limit the risk of tight supply. We are paying very close attention to our own energy use, but the main challenge is to support our customers with products that produce fewer emissions and are more efficient, while delivering the same service. We have to help them heat their homes and businesses, to drive their cars and trucks ? all while managing their energy use more efficiently.

To grow its production, Total is taking part in very environmentally  risky projects in Canada and the Arctic Ocean. How can you justify this?
Canada’s oil sands and the Arctic’s natural gas potential, mainly offshore Russia, are among the few untapped oil and gas resources left. Thanks to advances in technology and today’s high energy prices, they can now be developed cost-effectively, but finding and bringing them on stream does raise environmental issues that we are taking very seriously.
In Canada’s Athabasca region, our Joslyn and Surmont projects are producing oil using energy-intensive processes that emit carbon dioxide. But we are committed to reducing their emissions because the market can’t afford to turn its back on Canada’s vast resources.
The Shtokman natural gas project, for which we signed a memorandum of understanding with Gazprom in 2007, means we will be working in an isolated environment, in the midst of fragile ecosystems. We are addressing this challenge in three ways: understanding the environment holistically, in all its aspects; designing environmental protection into the project; and taking precautions to limit the risks of spills.

Higher energy prices may be bad news for consumers and economic growth, but they’re good for oil producing  countries and companies like Total. What’s your take?
Prices of mining and agricultural commodities have soared in recent years, driven in particular by demand from Asia and the Middle East, in an environment of sustained global economic growth. But in addition to this demand pressure, the real reasons for higher prices are the reluctance of certain oil producing countries to increase their output and concerns about the political situation of many stakeholders. Speculation alone is not to blame, nor are the oil majors, who account for only 15% of global production ? and 23% of capital expenditure ? and are
therefore in no position to influence prices.
But are higher prices really good news for oil companies? It’s true that they’ve kept our profits high, at €12.2 billion in 2007, and allowed us to increase our dividend by 11%. Above all, they’ve enabled us to double our capital spending budget over the last five years. They also benefit our contractors, who have sharply increased their prices in the overheated oil industry. But most of the additional revenue is going into the pockets of oil producing countries.
Certain developing countries without energy resources have been hard hit by higher prices. In the euro zone, this trend has been somewhat alleviated by the weak dollar. I realize that paying more for energy can be a hardship for consumers, but at a time when many are lobbying for the introduction of a carbon tax to encourage people to moderate their consumption, I think these prices may send the same message, and spur consumers to invest in less energy-intensive homes, heating systems and cars.

Demand pressure has given producing  countries the upper hand. Do Total and its peers still have enough influence to persuade them to increase their production capacity and avoid further market tension?
Clearly, at current prices, there’s no incentive for most oil and gas producing countries to produce more. A number have taken advantage of the tight market to increase their share of oil revenue by tightening the tax system for operators or making it a legal requirement that national oil companies have majority control of operations. In Venezuela, for example, we agreed, after difficult negotiations, to reallocate the interests held by the Sincor project partners.
Our only chance of persuading producing countries to keep pace with world energy demand is to forge mutually beneficial partnerships that respond to local aspirations. Locals have high expectations for economic and social development. Many of our current projects involve gas liquefaction trains, refineries and petrochemical units that are helping to industrialize our host country economies. We make sure that our projects transfer knowledge, create local jobs and provide business opportunities for local contractors.
Our technological excellence is a key strength, allowing us to implement projects on time and on budget, which gives host countries the tax revenue needed to finance their development projects. But technological excellence is not enough. We have to act as a good corporate citizen, attuned to local needs, if we want our host countries to welcome us and accept our presence over the long term.

Those are fine-sounding  principles, but do you really contribute  to progress in your host countries? Some of them violate democracy  and human rights, and that doesn’t seem to bother Total.
If democracy and reserves were found in the same places, life would be a lot easier for us, but sadly that’s not the case. However, most of the time, poverty and lack of democracy go hand in hand. We always hope that sound development of a country’s mineral resources will help it to take off economically, improve education and health care, promote the emergence of a class of businessmen and managers to succeed the ruling elite, and encourage an improvement in governance and democracy. We feel that transparent financial relationships with host country governments are critical to this process. It’s not easy to set this type of virtuous circle in motion, but that’s what we’re aiming for. Some countries, such as Myanmar, seem to be falling far short of this goal. Although our hopes have so far been disappointed, as the serious events in September 2007 illustrated, we make no bones about wanting to stay there. Our main motive is not financial gain, since our activities there are fairly small compared with the Group as a whole. But for Myanmar, Total is a rare window still open to the West. Our presence benefits our local employees and host communities. We owe it to them to stay, and are still hopeful that change will come.
We are taking a similar attitude to our operations in Sudan, which were suspended 20 years ago but will be resumed when security conditions are right.

Total talks about developing renewable energies, but are you really going to do it? After all, they currently account for a very negligible percentage of your capital expenditure.
I think it’s vitally necessary to broaden the range of energy sources in order to secure the future and protect the climate. Total is an energy producer and provider. We have been active in biofuels for a long time, on a very significant scale. We’re interested in all forms of energy, provided they allow us to use our capabilities and put together cost-effective projects. We recently bolstered both the teams and budgets allocated to new energies. I believe that the most promising avenues for Total are photovoltaic solar energy and biomass, which we are already familiar with and where we expect a lot from R&D and innovation. I also believe that nuclear power will be a key ingredient in the energy mix. That’s why we have teamed up with Suez and Areva for a nuclear power plant project in Abu Dhabi.

What does Total think of the various environmental initiatives undertaken in 2007, such as France’s Grenelle Environment Forum, the European Commission’s energy and climate package, and the United Nations Climate Change Conference in Bali?
Without going into too much detail, I’d like to briefly touch on four points. First, this consensus-building process involving government, associations, businesses and unions has enabled stakeholders to listen to what everyone else has to say about the environment and better understand each other’s expectations and needs. In this way, it has led to a number of practical recommendations. The process has also helped to break down the wall of distrust that too often separates business and civil society on these issues.
Second, we support the commitment expressed by France and the European Union to lead by example, but feel that this shouldn’t be an excuse for overregulation. As far as possible, standards should be defined at the E.U. level, making sure that European companies remain competitive in the global marketplace.
Third, the climate issue is by nature a planet-wide concern. That’s why I’m so pleased that the United States and China returned to the fold at the Bali conference, with everyone pledging to reduce their emissions. Fourth and last, I can confirm that Total will actively participate in the various programs that support the often voluntary initiatives that we have deployed for many years. Experience has taught us, sometimes painfully, just how important environmental stewardship and safety are for Total, and how they can play such a critical role in driving continuous improvement and safety are for Total, and how they can play such a critical role in driving continuous improvement.



“We have to act as a good corporate citizen, attuned to local needs, if we want our host countries to welcome us and accept our presence over the long term.”

“I think it’s vitally necessary to broaden the range of energy sources in order to secure the future and protect the climate.”
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Total 2008

Interview with Christophe De Margerie
Chief executive officer

Don’t the economic crisis and slump in oil prices call into question Total’s strategy of attempting to simultaneously boost your production, manage your impacts and secure the future of energy?
Our industry has not been spared by the crisis. The businesses and households that are our customers are consuming less, traveling less and spending less. The drop in the price of oil and gas automatically erodes our earnings. But that doesn’t change the fundamental calculus of our strategy: global energy demand will start growing again because emerging economies have enormous needs in the areas of power and transportation. That means that sooner or later prices will rebound from current levels.
We still need to diversify energy sources, and international research published recently on the climate, biodiversity and water underscore how essential it is to step up efforts to protect our environment. So the current crisis does not alter our strategic vision ? we are still committed to meeting energy demand sustainably.

But in the current economic climate, won’t you be forced, like it or not, to postpone certain projects, freeze hiring and focus on cost-cutting and budget-tightening until the situation eases?
Staying in the course despite short-term obstacles is something Total has always done, and our refusal to take a short-term view has led to major successes for us in the past. I’m sticking with it.
Our 2009 capital expenditure budget is around $18 billion, in line with previous years. We also plan to recruit about 8,000 employees in 2009, having hired an average of 9,000 employees annually since 2004.
Our industry demands a long-term outlook, because our projects are capital-intensive, our fields and production facilities have life spans of several decades, and it takes years to develop top-tier oil specialists.
Keeping up our efforts now supports the economy and employment. It also helps promote future energy security by developing the production capacity that will be needed to meet demand.
But staying in the course doesn’t mean that we can take our eye off the ball in terms of costs or upgrading our production base to safeguard its competitiveness. For example, Total’s Refining and petrochemicals businesses in France are having to adapt to structural changes in demand. We will be investing nearly €1 billion to ensure their long-term viability, which will stimulate local employment. The plan will entail job losses around 2012-2013, but there will be no layoffs and we are committed to finding appropriate solutions for the employees concerned.

Given the crisis, was this really a good time to increase the dividend paid to your shareholders, instead of keeping the capital to invest, conduct R&D and create jobs?
We posted very good earnings in 2008. There is no reason why shareholders shouldn’t receive their share. The stock market declines make it very clear that investing is not without risk; we need to retain our shareholders through a reasonable dividend payout policy. I would like to stress on this point that 100,000 current and former Total employees hold nearly 4% of our capital.
It’s a mistake to assume that dividends hamper our growth. Both are the result of our strategy’s success and the calculated risks that we have taken.
As we deal with the current crisis, our very solid balance sheet enables us to pursue our major projects, hire, and step up our R&D.

Most of the billions you invest go to oil and gas. For example, you are involved in oil sands production in Canada and in developing gas fields in the Arctic Sea, both of which alarm environmentalists. What can you say to reassure them?
All serious studies show that fossil fuels will continue to meet the bulk of energy demand for many years to come. We have a responsibility to maintain and increase our oil and gas production; it represents a not-insignificant 2% of global supply.
Among new resources to be developed, oil sands offer substantial potential; their development raises complex environmental problems that we pay careful attention to in our projects. In particular, we are participating in various R&D programs to cut the water use and greenhouse gas emissions associated with oil sands projects.
Environmental impact is also a major concern in the preliminary design we’re conducting for the Shtokman project, in partnership with Russia’s Gazprom, in the Barents Sea.

You are also interested in nuclear power. Shouldn’t the current crisis act as a spur for you to shift your growth model toward greener projects?
We consider nuclear power an effective, available way to meet energy demand while curbing greenhouse gas emissions. Together with solar energy and biomass, it is one of the avenues we have chosen for eventually diversifying our energy solutions.
It is true that most of our capital spending is currently earmarked for oil and gas projects, refining and petrochemicals; they are the bedrock of our operations. But we are working intensively to secure the future.
We have budgeted $7.5 billion for research and development for the period 2008-2013. The production capacity of our subsidiary photovoltech, a photovoltaic cell maker, is expected to triple by 2012. In 2008, we acquired a stake in a U.S. startup that makes third-generation carbon film-based photovoltaic components. We’re exploring second-generation biomass research. And we’re innovating to offer our customers more energy-efficient, lower-emission, cleaner products and services. In partnership with a number of research laboratories and industry and university partners, we’re working to develop the energy solutions of tomorrow.

The European Union managed to agree on an ambitious energy and climate change package in late 2008. Manufacturers put up some resistance, citing their problems staying competitive with rivals outside the EU What does Total think?
We’re pleased and proud that the European Union was able to reach an agreement on the challenging issue of implementing targets to reduce greenhouse gas emissions by 20% and boost the share of renewable energies in the energy mix to 20%.
We have created action programs to address each of these goals. To reduce our greenhouse gas emissions, for example, we are working to gradually eliminate flaring of associated gas in our oil production operations and to increase the energy efficiency of our processes through sustained capital spending.
In 2009, we’ll be starting up a commercial carbon capture and storage (CCS) pilot in Lacq, France. This is genuinely critical research: keep in mind that, according to the Intergovernmental panel on Climate Change (IpCC), CCS could eliminate 20 to 40% of global carbon emissions. So you can see that Total is fully involved in the fight against climate change. However, we have a responsibility to point out that the efforts of European Union industrial operators will not be enough if the transportation and housing sectors don’t do their fair share in this fight too. Our line of more efficient products and services can help them with this.
Since the problem is planetary in scale, we have high hopes for the United Nations Climate Change Conference that will be held in Copenhagen in late 2009.

Plummeting oil and gas prices have put a number of producing countries in a tough situation. Hasn’t the crisis exposed the way oil nations ? now coping with lower revenues, undiversified economies, and weak political and social cohesion ? have wasted their extractive industry revenues?
This is definitely a tough time for producing countries. They had based their budgets on an oil price of $80 to $100, and prices were only half that at the start of 2009. So they’re being forced to cut back or draw on their reserves.

However, we shouldn’t let this rough patch distract us from the very real progress that has been made. On financial transparency, for starters: a growing number of countries are implementing the Extractive Industries Transparency Initiative (EITI).
We consider it vital that our operations help drive local social development. That is our commitment and our best interest, and we have adjusted the way we define and assess our projects accordingly. Several large projects of strategic importance to local and regional economies are currently under way, such as our liquefied natural gas developments in Yemen, Nigeria and Angola.
Some 80% of the staff of Yemen LNG, scheduled to commission its facility this year, are Yemenis hired and trained by Total.
In Angola, we financed four new high schools that opened in early 2009. Creating jobs, supporting local small businesses and helping to expand education and health services are essential to building a mutually beneficial relationship with national governments and our host communities.
We are well aware that the tensions in some of our host countries overshadow our efforts. Take Nigeria, where the violence is getting worse, including against oil companies, which are experiencing employee kidnappings and attacks on their facilities. This large country, which is very important for Total, illustrates the challenges facing oil companies. Not just slow development given the high expectations created by oil wealth, but also the limits of the initiatives taken by companies, which cannot replace governments. We believe despite everything that our involvement in economic and social development projects helps ease tensions and make us more acceptable.

There were fatal accidents in your operations in early 2009, and you have also seen your fair share of industrial incidents recently, such as the spill from the Donges refinery that polluted the Loire estuary in 2008. How can this happen in a company with your experience?
The fatalities at our industrial facilities that you refer to are genuine tragedies. They affect us all. Our unstinting efforts in the area of safety are designed to prevent situations that can have such serious consequences.
Whenever there is an accident, we always try to understand what happened and learn from the experience so that it never happens again. And we do everything we can to repair and compensate any damage caused, as was the case for Donges.
In a company as big as Total, industrial safety is a never-ending task for which all of us must feel responsible and accountable at our own level. Our safety performance has improved significantly and still is, but we must constantly remain vigilant as part of a continuous improvement process.


Keeping up our efforts now supports the economy and employment. It also helps promote future energy security by developing the production capacity that will be needed to meet demand.

We consider it vital that our operations help drive local social development. That is our commitment and our best interest, and we have adjusted the way we define and assess our projects accordingly.

------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Total 2009

Message from Christophe de Margerie, Chief Executive Of?cer, Total

Development, rising demand for energy and climate change: what we do lies at the intersection of two of the greatest challenges facing the world today and tomorrow ? energy supply and environmental protection. Our responsibility as an energy producer is to manage these crucial and apparently con?icting challenges as best we can.

In practical terms, that means managing our energy use and offering our customers ways to do the same. More importantly, it also means inventing a new energy model that combines fossil fuels with low-carbon energy sources, to satisfy energy demand without interruption while at the same time protecting the environment.

But our responsibility doesn’t end there. With nearly 97,000 employees, a presence in every region of the world and large-scale, value-creating projects, we rank among the top 20 enterprises worldwide.

Our activities, our size and our ?nancial strength understandably raise high expectations, in areas as various as employment, the environment, local development, safety, access to energy, ?nancial transparency, ethics and more.

We must acknowledge and take heed of these expectations. Doing so is a moral and civic duty and, more prosaically, an industrial and business one.

The energy environment is changing. Producing countries are increasingly reluctant to grant access to their reserves and competition among oil operators is intensifying as newcomers from major emerging economies ramp up their activities, among other developments.

That means we have to stand out from everyone else to continue enjoying access to resources, which is what’s needed to generate suf?cient earnings to keep boosting our capital expenditure, especially on R&D. This is the only way for us to secure the future of energy and tackle climate change.

In other words, a key determinant will be our ability to listen, explain and take into account ? in short, to have transparent, constructive conversations with our stakeholders. That is, everyone directly and indirectly concerned by our projects, including employees, neighbors, customers, authorities, associations and shareholders.

The human factor is critical to this conversation. Through our personal conduct and people skills, we can lay the groundwork for balanced relationships, convince producing countries and their national oil companies that we add value, and in general demonstrate,  in every host country, that our projects stimulate economies while respecting people’s rights and protecting the environment.

Yet this is no easy task: we must deal with a growing number of stakeholders and the sometimes-con?icting requirements that go with them.

At times we have to make tough decisions. I’m thinking in particular of the changes at our Flandres re?nery in northern France. I’m also thinking of our investments in oil sands projects in Canada, which we believe are vital for meeting energy demand over the next few decades.

However, assuming our responsibilities also means understanding why people criticize both our decisions and our projects. In the case of the Flandres re?nery, we have made a commitment not to lay anyone off. We have also pledged that, aside from the changes planned at Flandres, we will not shut down or sell off any French re?neries in the next ?ve years.

In Canada, we are bringing all our knowledge and expertise to bear to ?nd technologies that will shrink the environmental footprint of our oil sands projects. This is one of the reasons why we have opened a research center dedicated to the same issues in Calgary and are working closely with institutional, scienti?c and industrial partners.

We are aware that we still need to improve further. Listening, discussing and opening our minds to other ways of seeing and doing things are effective ways to move forward.

It is because we ?rmly believe they are that we have put together this report. By answering your questions about some of our chosen directions, we hope to show you what it is we do and where we mean to go.

But even more than that, we want to open up the dialogue, invite you to ask us questions and tell us about your expectations and what you don’t understand. In short, to help us do better. Because the world is changing and we have to change with it, before it, in our interest and everyone else’s.

We hope you enjoy our report.



“Our ability to understand the expectations we create and to meet them head on should help us.”

“Energy supply and environmental protection ? our responsibility as an energy producer is to manage these crucial and apparently con?icting challenges as best we can.”

“However, assuming our responsibilities also means understanding why people criticize both our decisions and our projects.”
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Total 2010

Message from Christophe de Margerie

In just under a year, the world experienced two major industrial accidents related to energy production, the Deepwater Horizon explosion in the Gulf of Mexico and the Fukushima nuclear power plant accident in Japan. In Fukushima’s case, we still don’t know the full extent of the consequences.

These tragic events serve to remind us that energy is a precious and critical resource, requiring complex, costly and not entirely risk-free industrial operations and facilities to produce.

Precious, because there are no current substitutes for oil in many applications. Critical, because growth is utterly dependent on energy.

We’ve become quite attached to our standard of living and emerging economies ? quite legitimately ? aspire to match it.

Can the world strike a balance between a steady energy supply, growth, and the protection of lives and the environment? We believe it can. What’s more, we’re focusing all of our skills and expertise on providing practical, innovative answers to this question, dedicating substantial financial resources to it each year. That, in our eyes, is our primary responsibility.

However, juggling all these demands requires us to adapt. One way we do that is by looking for oil and gas in more complex environments? the ultra-deep offshore, for example ? or in less conventional forms, such as oil sands and shale gas, to name just two.

But that won’t be enough to meet demand.
So we also have to develop alternative energies and help promote more efficient energy use and more energy conservation. In other words, offer our customers solutions that support more efficient, more frugal energy use, a goal that guides our innovation process.

The technical, business and environmental challenges we face are enormous. So are the social challenges. Indeed, the recent disasters heighten concerns about industry ? mainly in OECD countries ? and rekindle questions about its ability to manage its risks and responsibilities.

But society is no more ready to give up the comfort and conveniences energy brings than it is to accept structural increases in its price.

Hope often trumps concerns in emerging geographies. But society’s expectations of energy operators are sky high, especially given that the people living in the countries richest in minerals and fossil fuels are frequently among the world’s poorest.

Meeting all these challenges will take time and we will not be able to do it alone. Partnerships and dialogue are vital for helping us better pinpoint the expectations and fears we sometimes raise and find better ways to meet or allay them.

This ongoing effort to connect with the wider world will drive our continued improvement and help us to develop today the bold ideas and technologies that will foster innovative, socially acceptable solutions tomorrow.

We hope you find our report informative and enjoy reading it.

Christophe de Margerie,
Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, Total



Your 10 questions home in on aspects of our operations and decisions that surprise you, worry you or simply spur a reaction. We thank you for once again making the effort this year. You can be sure that your input is very important in helping us to move in the right direction and to clearly formulate what we can do to improve the way we use and share energy.

------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Total 2011


A CONVERSATION WITH CHRISTOPHE DE MARGERIE,
CHAIRMAN & CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER

THE RECENT INCIDENT ON YOUR ELGIN PLATFORM IN THE NORTH SEA HIGHLIGHTS THE RISKS ASSOCIATED WITH DEVELOPING COMPLEX RESERVOIRS. WHY
CONTINUE TO SEARCH FOR OIL AND GAS AT ANY COST?
The incident was a reminder that accidents are always possible in spite of our best efforts to prevent them. We must not, therefore, be- come overconfident and must strive for operational excellence. Constant vigilance is a must. It is also what enables us to respond efficiently and effectively when an incident occurs. Ensuring the safety of our teams and our facilities is our number one responsibility.
We also have a responsibility to sup- ply enough energy to meet the needs of as many people as possible. We are redoubling our efforts in this area too. At a time when global demand is rising and energy is increasingly costly and complex to produce, our task has never been more difficult. The amount of intellectual resources that go into each barrel we produce has also never been higher. The rea- son why we are developing deep and ultra-deep offshore fields and uncon- ventional oil and gas resources is not because of some sort of misplaced pride. It’s because we believe that this is the only realistic solution to satisfying the world’s energy needs over the long term, while also limit- ing the increase in energy prices.
And preparing for the future also means supporting the development of renewable energies, which we know will play an essential role in tomorrow’s energy mix. At Total, we have chosen to focus on solar en- ergy and biomass. We are also preparing for the future by encour- aging innovation by our teams so that we can develop the smartest possible solutions while minimizing our impact on the environment.

ARE YOU DOING ENOUGH FOR SOCIETY, IN LIGHT OF TOTAL’S MORE THAN HEALTHY FINANCIAL RESULTS?
Our financial results are what enable us to invest and therefore to fulfill our commitment to society. Produc- ing the energy the world needs already requires considerable investment, but doing it in an environmentally conscious way with a heightened focus on safety makes it even more costly. In 2011, Total spent more than €20 billion to meet this triple objective.
It is also thanks to our profits that we are able to support development in our host countries. We foster growth and employment all around us. Our employees, shareholders, suppliers and customers all benefit from our success, as do host country govern- ments, via the taxes we pay ? and we do pay a lot of tax, including in France. Other beneficiaries include
local small and medium-sized businesses, communities with little or no access to energy, and the people living near our facilities who need help with healthcare and edu- cation. Creating shared value is the key to our corporate social responsibility commitment. And to continue to fulfill that commitment over the long term, we need to be profitable.

BY GIVING STAKEHOLDERS AN OPPORTUNITY TO EXPRESS THEMSELVES IN YOUR SOCIETY AND ENVIRONMENT REPORT ONCE AGAIN THIS YEAR, AREN’T YOU OPENING YOURSELVES UP TO CRITICISM?
The technical, financial, environmen- tal and social challenges we face today are enormous. Companies cannot overcome these challenges alone. It is only by listening to our stakeholders and maintaining con- structive dialogue with them that we can hope to develop appropriate solutions together.
Many people have questions about our businesses, operations and ac- tions. They are legitimate questions and we must answer them openly and transparently. Take the shale gas debate, for example. It is up to us to prove that safe, environmentally responsible exploration in France is possible.
Our initiatives to facilitate access to energy also require an educational, informative approach on our part. We must win over our detractors by explaining our vision, objectives and solutions in detail. I hope that this report will foster discussion and pro- vide more food for ongoing dialogue.



“Creating shared value is the key to our corporate social responsibility commitment. And to continue to fulfill that commitment over the long term, we need to be profitable.”

“Companies cannot overcome these challenges alone. It is only by listening to our stakeholders and maintaining constructive dialogue with them that we can hope to develop appropriate solutions together.”


------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ TOTAL SA 2013

When you co-chaired the World Economic Forum in Davos in early 2014, your closing remarks focused on climate change. Was that your way of bringing energy companies back into the debate? 

Christophe de Margerie: One of the things I noticed at Davos was that climate change has finally become a genuine priority. As the global population increases, driving further growth in energy demand, the issue is becoming even more complex. We all know that the responses will have to address this trend and ensure a sufficient supply of energy at affordable prices. So, like it or not, energy companies are not just part of the problem, we’re also part of the solution. We can no longer be kept out of the climate change discussions that precede negotiations among world leaders. And I also believe that, rather than simply participating in the discussion, energy companies have a duty to provide decision-makers with a better idea of what can reason-ably be achieved and when ? and if more needs to be done, at what cost. 

How are you contributing to the energy transition that needs to take place in order to combat climate change? 

C. de M.: Total has been implementing measures to reduce greenhouse gas emissions for more than ten years. Our efforts target several avenues. First, we are actively promoting the emergence of a more diverse energy mix. For example, by staying the course as our SunPower affiliate rode out the slump, we have now achieved our objective of becoming a global leader in solar energy. We are aware of the progress that still needs to be made for solar energy to achieve genuine cost-competitiveness, and it will be some time before new energies replace the ones currently available. In the meantime, we need to tackle the issue of climate change with an energy mix dominated by fossil fuels.

One solution is to increase the use of natural gas, which now accounts for half of Total’s resource production. With a much smaller carbon footprint than coal when used for power generation, natural gas is set to become the world’s transitional fossil fuel. 

Another key avenue for improvement is to enhance the energy efficiency of our facilities and our products and services. This is often seen by our stakeholders as the easiest way to combat climate change. But it’s important to remember that efficiency gains are achieved through technological advances, which require considerable R&D and investment. We have also made a public commitment to gradually eliminate gas flaring, which is a significant source of greenhouse gas emissions in our operations.

Oil and gas are vital resources and remain our core business. But it’s not just “business as usual,” because climate change is considered every time we make a strategic decision.

You often argue in favor of a more integrated approach to corporate social responsibility. Can more be done in this area? 

C. de M.: I certainly think it’s a shame that, very often, people look at our financial results and our corporate social responsibility performance separately. In fact, many of our investors have different people looking at these two areas, so they never get a balanced view of our overall performance. But there aren’t two Totals, one focused on business and the other on corporate social responsibility. On the contrary, CSR is fully integrated into our strategy, our business model and our day-to-day operations. 

Total probably achieved integration earlier than other companies because our industry elicits such high expectations about how we should manage our environmental impact and deliver benefits for the economy at the same time. Our operational managers find themselves engaging with stakeholders constantly, because their responsibility doesn’t end when they’re off the clock. I can assure you that no one at Total today thinks we can conduct our business without taking into consideration the environment in which we operate. This applies to both our strategic vision and our frontline operations. The aim of this report is to illustrate this integrated approach. 

These days, cost discipline is also one of Total’s key operational priorities. How is this affecting your corporate social responsibility commitment, given the cost associated with acting responsibly?

C. de M.: It’s true that managing costs is critical to the long-term viability of our operations, but safety is non-negotiable. The only way we can continue to do business is by operating safely. That’s why we will never stop investing in training, campaigns to heighten vigilance and other initiatives that ensure the safety of our teams and asset integrity. On the other hand, we can and must leverage our capacity for innovation to find new, more efficient and cost-effective ways to design our projects and conduct our operations. The soaring costs prevalent in the industry for the last decade or more are becoming a real problem. Since 2011, oil prices have stabilized while project costs have continued to climb by 7 or 8% per year. Obviously, project complexity and higher social and environmental standards are part of the equation. But a large portion of the blame can be attributed to higher raw material prices ? believe it or not ? as well as to the supply and demand situation within the industry.

To explain what I mean, let’s look at a real-world example. For the same level of complexity, a deep offshore drilling rig cost around $100,000 to $200,000 a day in the early 2000s, compared with $500,000 to $600,000 today. Unless this sort of price inflation is reined in, we won’t be able to continue investing. And it needs to happen now. Otherwise, projects are going to be delayed, which means that production will eventually shrink while energy demand continues to grow. We could then see a new surge in oil prices, with consequences for the global economy that no one wants to experience again. When we’re talking about responsibility, this is a key issue. We have a responsibility to maintain our company’s investment capacity, which is critical to our long-term viability, and we also have a responsibility to raise the red flag about industrial inflation, an issue that goes well beyond the oil and gas sector.

Can the costs associated with meeting social and environmental standards be sustained, under these circumstances?

C. de M.: Anything that helps to protect our environment is a necessity, not a luxury. We therefore have a collective responsibility to accept the fact that cleaner energies are more expensive. It’s too bad that this subject is so often discussed in conflicting, black-and-white terms: Should we protect consumers’ purchasing power or the environment? To be acceptable, the additional cost must be clearly explained and gradually introduced. Phasing in the additional cost over time is important, both for consumers and for the companies that have to invest in innovation, adjust their products and find new solutions. That’s why business leaders argue so hard for greater visibility over regulatory changes and a more gradual approach. We’re not trying to evade our responsibilities; it’s just that some things take time. 

What about community engagement? Host countries have high expectations for job creation and there’s been a rapid increase in local content across all Total projects.

C. de M.: Host governments and communities expect, quite rightly, that our investments will also create significant value for them. The rapid improvement is due first and foremost to the fact that we have completely rethought the way we do things, so that local content is now integrated into our projects very early in the design phase. It’s no use waiting until the call for tenders has been issued to start thinking about the capacity available locally. Everything has to be prepared in advance. For example, training programs have to be initiated years before the scheduled start-up of operations and a prequalification process has to be set up to give local businesses time to meet our standards. Sometimes we even support the creation of new streams in local schools or universities. Angola provides a good example of how these investments produce results over an extended period of time. On the Pazflor project, which came on stream in 2011, more than 3 million hours of work were performed locally. With CLOV, we expect to reach 11 million hours. 

Gauging the long-term effectiveness and impact of our community engagement initiatives is one area where we still need to improve. To help prioritize our initiatives, we need to know whether their impact on the local economy, and particularly job creation, is sustainable or only temporary. At the same time, local capacity building must not compromise our projects’ competitiveness over the long haul. 

Planning ahead is a theme of this report. Do you think it’s a key success factor?

C. de M.: It’s certainly a factor in the successful integration of business and CSR objectives. A responsible company is one that deploys the necessary resources, before the final investment decision, to assess not only the opportunities involved, but also the risks and its ability to manage them. Looking out for subtle clues so that we can anticipate change and give our teams and suppliers time to adapt also gives us a competitive advantage. There’s a lot of talk about the energy transition, and rightly so, but we also need to discuss the changes it entails for energy companies. To find the leeway necessary to build the future, we need to put all the issues on the table as soon as possible and discuss them without prejudice.?

---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- BP 2003

Group chief executive’s introduction

Over the last five years BP has grown significantly. From several heritage companies we have created one BP group, with a strong portfolio of assets, market positions and people, connected by shared values and a common purpose. Our aspirations have grown. We are striving to be numbered among the world’s great companies and to be a force for human progress. We are doing all this in testing times when confidence in major corporations has declined and the spotlight on our activities has become even brighter.
Our intention is therefore to report on more than just our financial performance and tell a broader story as clearly as we can, highlighting our achievements but also being open about the difficulties we encounter. Our goal is to provide a clear window through which our policies, commitments and performance can be assessed, both by the outside world and by our 103,700 employees.
This year we have created a report that provides a concise account of the main issues affecting the energy business and explains how BP is seeking to address them. We have sought
to show how environmental, social and ethical issues help shape our business strategy, a process that begins with our fundamental purpose ? to maximize long-term shareholder value.
This is a simple phrase, but one that makes complex demands. First, it demands that we develop a strategy that will give the company competitive advantage and so create value. Second, since it demands that shareholder value be maintained for the long term, it requires us to build a company that will endure ? a sustainable company, operating in a sustainable world. This is one of the reasons we have called this the BP Sustainability Report 2003. Our strategy defines the destination ? shareholder value ? but the test of sustainability provides the reference by which we judge everything we do. It defines the path towards our destination. To be sustainable, a company cannot exist in isolation but must recognize and manage its wider impact and its contribution to society.
In practical terms, we do this by defining our core values, enshrining them in policies with real meaning and then applying them through specific controlled management processes and standards throughout the group. All of this is carried out within a well-defined system of governance, details of which are clearly laid out in BP Annual Report and Accounts 2003.
Looking to more specific issues, as we seek to manage the impact of our activities on the environment we are driven by an aspiration to transcend the apparent trade-off between energy-led improvements in living standards and environmental degradation. Our goal is to enable energy to be produced and consumed in ways that do no long-term damage to the planet or its people.
In 2003, this led to a range of actions, including a more focused inquiry into what is required to stabilize greenhouse gas concentrations in the atmosphere, and further work to minimize emissions from our own operations. In addition, we have implemented a new programme to determine how reduced emissions from cleaner, less carbon-intense fuels such as natural gas, or motor fuels such as BP Ultimate, can be recognized for their contribution to broader global reduction targets.

The principle of mutual advantage underpins our approach to relationships. Mutual advantage represents our aspiration that every contact a third party has with BP should bring advantage to them as well as to us. This applies as much to a community, country or supplier as to a customer or employee.
In 2003, two developments stood out as examples of our commitment to this principle. The first was the 1,762-kilometre Baku-Tbilisi-Ceyhan  (BTC) oil pipeline, which we began to build in April on behalf of the BTC Company. It is the largest foreign direct investment in the region, with an estimated cost of around $3 billion. The longest pipeline ever built by BP, it avoids the need to send more tankers through the congested Bosporus and Turkish Straits. We have set out to make the pipeline a flagship for local economic benefit, for environmental and social safeguards and for community involvement. Its construction continues, as do scrutiny and external challenge. So, too, does our determination to makeit a positive outcome for all involved as we work to complete the construction in 2005.
Last year, we also made a major investment in Russia, one of the world’s great hydrocarbon basins. Here we are starting a long journey that will test how well we can put our principles into practice. In the joint venture with our partners, we are determined to contribute to the continuing economic progress of Russia, and over time reduce the impact of our operations on the environment.
We attach great importance to the work done by expert organizations to create benchmarks for reporting a company’s performance in respect of the environment, ethics, governance, employment and social issues. This report has been prepared in accordance with the 2002 Global Reporting Initiative Guidelines and has been independently verified. We believe it represents a balanced and reasonable presentation of our economic, environmental and social performance. We also include a ‘Communication on Progress’ on how we are living the United Nations Global Compact Principles.
As we progress towards our goals, we will not get everything right all the time. We are grappling with difficult and complex issues in challenging parts of the world. But I am convinced that BP must be a force for good wherever we operate and that corporate responsibility must remain at the heart of our business, driving everything we do. You will judge how well we are succeeding.
I hope this report will provide a clearer picture of the actions we are taking to meet the world’s needs for energy while promoting human progress and preserving the natural environment. If there are ways we can improve it, please let us know. I hope it provides real insight as to what is at the core of BP.



The Lord Browne of Madingley
Group Chief Executive
April 2004

---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- BP 2004

Group chief executive’s introduction

2004 was a great year in terms of financial and operational performance and it was also a significant year in the group’s long-term evolution.
Our Annual Report and Accounts 2004 covers financial and operating performance in detail. This report looks at the performance of 2004 in the longer-term context of BP’s sustainability as a group.
The road to sustainability begins with our fundamental purpose as an organization ? to provide better goods and services in the form of light, heat, power and mobility to increasing numbers of people and thereby to deliver shareholder value on a long-term basis.
To succeed, we need to do this in a way that is profitable, consistent and sustainable.
To deliver profitable performance, we provide high-quality products in an effective way ? maximizing revenues and minimizing costs.
To deliver consistent performance, we fund controlled investment that supports long-term growth, balancing this with returns to shareholders and the interests of all who are affected by our work.
To deliver sustainable performance, we require a combination of factors. Our investments must be for the long term. We have to attract and retain the best people. We must work with others towards a sustainable environment. And we must build trust through relationships based on ‘mutual advantage’ ? relationships that bring benefits to everyone concerned.
Along with standards such as those set out in our new code of conduct, the consideration of mutual advantage keeps our ambition within legitimate bounds and marks out the path we take towards creating value.
To achieve our purpose, we follow a strategy that is itself founded on the principles of sustainability. In exploration and production, we seek out long-term assets ? the largest, low-cost, new hydrocarbon deposits. In 2004, on a UK GAAP/SORP basis, we achieved proved reserves replacement (for subsidiaries and equity-accounted entities) of over 100% for the 12th consecutive year. In our customer- facing businesses, we look to build long-term customer loyalty through the quality of our products and services.
In enacting our strategy, we must also act responsibly if we are to build trust. ’Responsibility’ is a much-used term in the business world and it is important to be clear about what we mean by it. During 2004, we discussed this in some detail in BP and we concluded that responsibility operates on several levels, all of them closely linked to our business strategy.
At a basic level, responsibility means observing the law ? complying with the laws and regulations that govern our operations in each country.
At the next level, responsibility takes us beyond compliance to set our own standards in our operations ? applied consistently worldwide and often going beyond what local laws require. So, for example, no one in BP is allowed to use a mobile phone when driving on company business. And our code of conduct forbids the making of facilitation payments or company-funded political contributions.
At a further level, responsibility prompts us to take action on issues that extend beyond our own operations and where we can make a difference.
For example, we knew seven years ago that we had to take a stand on climate change. The evidence for precautionary action was growing. And over those years we have not only reduced our own greenhouse gas emissions but have taken an increasing part in the global debate on climate change. More recently, we have recognized the contribution we can make towards education, a powerful force for development and awareness, not least environmental issues.
This approach to responsibility, as well as our overall strategy, has to be applied in the light of the context at any given time. In 2004, this context included our own expanded scope, scale and footprint. It also included an
energy market that experienced the fastest-growing demand for several decades at the same time as supply disruptions such as those arising from Hurricane Ivan and events in Iraq. This led to a debate about energy supplies, in which we reiterated our view that the global market provides the best guarantee of sustainable security of supply.
In an uncertain and challenging world, our key objective for the long term is simple ? to be there for the long term and to be a positive influence. Such long-term considerations have a direct impact on our plans. For example, we have deliberately planned the development of our natural gas businesses because we recognize that gas ? being lighter
in carbon than oil and coal ? is an important bridge towards the lower-carbon world of the future.
2004 was also a year of change to our community investment strategy. We identified three areas for community investment where there is an overlap between what we can offer and what communities need. We plan to spend around $500 million on these areas over each five-year period:
?   Enterprise ? supporting local and regional economic development.
?   Education ? supporting a wide range of appropriate learning initiatives.
?   Energy ? enabling communities to gain access to energy.
This report also covers the resources and capabilities we use to turn such plans into action ? from the way we develop our people to the way we work with experts in areas such as biodiversity or environmental research.
For people to fulfil their potential, they need clarity and confidence about their roles. In BP, we seek to achieve this through our management framework, which sets out clear personal accountabilities and the processes by which authority is delegated.
These plans result in a wide range of activities. Some represent incremental stages of a journey ? such as the creation in 2004 of new safety standards ? while others are milestones, events that mark out choices we have made about our future direction in response to the challenges we face.
For example, in 2004, transparency associated with tax and revenue payments remained a complex and difficult issue. However, an important step forward was taken when we and others signed an agreement in Azerbaijan under the Extractive Industries Transparency Initiative, providing for companies to publish details of the combined taxes which they pay to the government. It is critical that we maintain momentum on this issue.
In the effort to take further precautions against climate change, we launched a major project with our joint venture in Algeria to capture carbon dioxide that would otherwise be released and to store it underground forever. We also responded to challenges over environmentally sensitive areas by developing a new process for the early assessment of the sensitivity of particular projects and new criteria to govern our involvement.
In our Annual Report and Accounts 2004 you can read our financial results, while this report gives data on factors that affect long-term sustainability. We apply the same disciplines of performance management to these factors as to all areas of business, seeking in each case continuous improvement.
While there is always more to do, we were honoured by the external recognition that we received from many external agencies, for both our performance on the ground in our business operations and also our sustainability reporting. However, the following page highlights some of the difficulties and challenges we faced in 2004, as well as some of our achievements. For example, it shows that, while our overall safety record improved once again, we still had a number of fatalities, a loss of life that we deeply regret.
For the second year, this report has been prepared in accordance with the 2002 Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Guidelines. We believe it represents a balanced and reasonable presentation of our group’s economic, environmental and social performance. We believe the GRI is a driver for consistency and comparability in reporting and this is why we have chosen to support the development of the next generation of reporting guidelines (G3).
We also include a ‘Communication on Progress’, which describes how we are seeking to demonstrate the United Nations Global Compact Principles in our work.
We have made good progress in many areas in 2004 but there is no room for complacency. There will be many challenges as we continue to develop our businesses around the world.
There will be continued focus on transparency. And human rights will continue to be in the spotlight. Our challenge is to continue to apply what we have learned and to support the Voluntary Principles on Security and Human Rights, bringing stability and consensus to the security and policing of oil and gas developments. A key project that is scheduled to start construction in 2005 is the LNG project at Tangguh, in Indonesia. As we move towards production, we must generate social and economic benefits there as well as creating value for shareholders from a world-class project.
I leave you to judge whether BP is an increasingly responsible company that deserves to prosper for decades. It is a judgement that will be based not on reports or words alone, but on witnessing sustained, consistent actions by the group’s 102,900 people worldwide.



The Lord Browne of Madingley
Group Chief Executive

---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- BP 2005

Group chief executive’s introduction

We start  from the  view that  the  purpose of business is to satisfy  human needs and, in doing so, to generate profits  for investors. For BP, that  means providing energy to fuel human progress and economic growth. It also means satisfying the  need for a sustainable environment.
This philosophy helps  to shape everything we  do and we  regard  responsible behaviour as an essential part of the  fabric of the  group  ? not something to be added on as an afterthought. The actions we  take  are designed to enable our business to prosper and all our activities  contribute to the  delivery of our purpose as a business. Our focus is on safety and operational integrity,  security of supply  and the  protection of people and the  natural  environment.
On many  fronts,  our performance in 2005  was  very strong but the  year was  overshadowed by the  industrial accident at our Texas  City refinery  in March,  which  caused 15 deaths and many  more  injuries. That incident  has  been the  subject of rigorous  and thorough investigation both  by our own  team and by external authorities and lessons have  been learned. We are determined to do everything possible to ensure that no such  accident recurs.
In addition  to safety, the  primary challenge for BP in 2005  was  the  maintenance of the  flow of secure supplies of energy to our customers in the  face  of volatile markets and the instability caused by continued conflict in the  Middle East,  terrorism, and extreme weather conditions in the  US and elsewhere. Our success in meeting this fundamental element of our purpose was  due  to the  talent  and dedication of our staff,  often  working  under  conditions of severe difficulty.
BP now  produces more  than  4 million barrels  of oil equivalent per day of oil and gas  for customers across the  world. To sustain supplies and meet the  growing  levels  of demand that  population  growth and prosperity are generating we  continue to invest  for the future.  Our capital spending totalled  $13.9  billion in 2005.  More  than  $10 billion of this figure was  in exploration and production, bringing the  total so far since  the  turn of the  century to more  than  $50 billion. That investment will help to provide  sustainable supplies of oil and gas  for decades to come.
No company in the  oil and gas  industry, however, can fail to recognize that,  as the  demand for our products rises,  so too does the  risk that  their use  will contribute to the  environmental challenges associated with an increasing concentration of carbon  in the  atmosphere. The science of climate  change may be incomplete but we  would  be foolish to ignore  the  mounting evidence and the  conclusion of many of the  world’s most eminent scientists that precautionary action  is necessary.
Over recent years, we have taken  steps to reduce emissions from our own operations and to improve the quality of our products. In 2005, we took an important step with a substantial investment in the development of an alternative energy business that will offer our customers new  choices of low-carbon energy. BP Alternative Energy is focused on the power generation sector
? the largest single source of emissions ? through investments in solar power, wind, combined-cycle gas turbines, and the new  technology of sequestration in which carbon  is captured and stored, allowing hydrogen to be used to generate clean, low- carbon  electric power.
This is a long-term but very exciting  development which  we  believe  can help meet the  energy needs of a growing  world while minimizing the  impact  on our common environment.
The other  element of sustainability is human talent.
In all the  places in which  we  operate, we  are committed to the  development of people. Within BP, that  commitment is reflected in our policies  of inclusion  and meritocracy and our determination to develop individuals, regardless of their background, creed or colour.
Beyond  the  group,  we  are committed to the  development of enterprise and education to help ensure that  the  communities in which  we  work are equipped to take  advantage of the wealth created by natural  resource development. In 2005, we  appointed our first director  of education, whose role
is both  to co-ordinate our existing  activities  and to develop a continuing  programme to maximize  our contribution to the development of human capacity in the places where we operate.
These activities, many  of which are described in greater detail in the  following pages, represent the  practical expression of our commitment to the  principle of mutual advantage.
This report  has  been prepared in accordance with the 2002  Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Guidelines. We believe it represents a balanced and reasonable presentation of BP’s economic, environmental and social performance. BP has supported GRI in the  development of the  next  generation of reporting guidelines, expected to be launched in 2006.
For the  first year, we  also report  against the  IPIECA/API indicators, which  provide  guidance on voluntary  disclosure for the  oil and gas  industry. BP played  a significant  role in the  development of these new  sector guidelines. We also include  a ‘Communication on Progress’, which  describes how  we  continue to seek to demonstrate the  United  Nations Global Compact principles  in our work.
We have  much  to do, and much  to learn, but our aspiration remains unchanged ? to be a company that  works  consistently and universally  in ways that  help to sustain the  development of the  world of which  we  are part.


The Lord Browne of Madingley
Group Chief Executive
April 2006

---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- BP 2006

Group chief executive’s introduction

Business is a long-term activity. Investments, especially for a company such as BP, are designed to create activities that will endure and remain profitable over decades. Every purchase in a BP service station is part of a long-term relationship with the individual customer rather  than a single transaction. Our relationships with partners, suppliers, governments, staff, investors and the  communities in which we  operate are built on the  principle of long-term mutual advantage. They are built to last.
That is why we  care  about  the  sustainability of our activities and why, throughout the  company, we  work to ensure that the things we  do and the  way we  do them are genuinely sustainable.
The past two years have been difficult for BP. In March 2005,  at the Texas City refinery, we  suffered a tragedy in which 15 people died and many  more  were seriously injured. We have  also experienced operational difficulties in Alaska and the  potentially destabilizing effects of intense and at times unbalanced media scrutiny and criticism.
Given that context, the achievements recorded in this document, our sixteenth annual report  on non-financial performance, are remarkable and a great  testimony to the BP team across the  world:
?   An improvement in personal safety, with reported recordable injury frequency the  lowest in our recorded history.
?   Ongoing improvements in our environmental impact across a series of measures.
?   An improvement in the  development of people, including an increase in the  number of women in leadership since 2000.
?   And, of course, a strong financial performance allowing us
to invest for the  future  and to reward those who  trust us with their savings.
The achievements reflect the  determination of the  company ? the  board,  the  senior management, and approximately 97,000 staff in more  than 100 countries around  the  world ? to deliver on the  promises we  make  and to fulfil our aspiration of creating a company which on every  dimension is sustainable.
This report  presents the  facts, but behind every  statement of fact and every  item of data is a story of individuals and teams working to achieve continuous improvement, often  in very tough  circumstances.
?   Our team in Baku, which in 2006  successfully completed the development of a 1,768km pipeline, which now brings around 600 thousand barrels of oil per day to the  world market. That development took 12 years and represented not only one of the  great  engineering projects of our time, but also the  first international investment across three complex societies and in geography that posed huge  environmental challenges.
?   Our team in Indonesia, which in 2006 continued the development of one  of the  world’s great  gas fields, Tangguh,  working in a remote, environmentally sensitive area  and requiring the  greatest of care  in integrating a large-scale construction process with the  life of the  local community.
?   Our team in the  BP Alternative Energy  business, managing a series of dynamic, fast-growing activities, including solar, wind and the  hugely promising technology of carbon  capture and storage. All those activities carry the  potential to help the world make  the  transition to a lower-carbon economy ?a transition that is essential if the  risks of climate change are to be avoided and is a sustained transition which BP started some 10 years ago.
?   Our team in the trading business ? matching supply to demand on a daily basis and managing a fast-moving market ? and in doing so helping to sustain energy security in a world disrupted by war and civil conflict.
Each one  of those teams has a great  story to tell, as do hundreds of other  teams across every  business segment and function in BP.
Sustainability is about  their activity, day in and day out. Sustainability is also about  the  policies that underpin our work and shape every decision we  take.
Policies, for instance, on business ethics and transparency that  start from our firm conviction that business should be an open  activity and that corruption is both  a corrosive restraint on genuine development and a direct business cost that can and must be eliminated.
Our policies also guide the  way in which we  manage and develop the  people who  work for BP. Great  companies will only succeed if they are free  of prejudice and bigotry that can limit the  development of individuals on the  basis of, for example, gender, nationality, race,  sexual orientation or age. What matters in every decision on employment must be merit ? as measured by track record  and a judgement of potential.
In all these ways, we  aim to achieve the  sustainability of the  group  and, even  more  important, the  sustainability of the societies in which we  operate. Companies are part of society and in the  long term  we  can only thrive if society is itself thriving.
The overall story of this report  therefore is one  of progress and success but not without its challenges.
There is no sense of complacency in BP. The tragic events of Texas City reminded us all of the  physical danger associated with the commodities with which we  work and the  need for the  strongest processes, matched by a universal sense of personal responsibility, in the  management of risk in all our operations. This report  includes a full description of all the  things we  are doing in response to what  happened at Texas City. Our absolute determination is to learn the  lessons and to ensure that,  to the  very best of our ability, no such tragedy can occur again.
Nor are we  complacent about  any of the  other  topics covered in this report. We recognize the  risks and challenges we  face.
We also recognize that while we  have  made progress in many areas much  remains to be done. Sustainability is a continuous process and the  effort  to attain sustainability has to begin again every  day.
This year marks our fourth  using the  Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Guidelines and the  first in which we  report  against the  new  G3 guidelines. BP was an active supporter of the  development of these. We believe the  report  represents a balanced and reasonable presentation of BP’s economic, social and environmental performance.
Once  again, we  also report  against the  IPIECA/API indicators, which provide guidance on voluntary disclosure for the  oil and gas industry.
BP has now  sustained itself as a company for almost 100 years through periods of dramatic economic, social, political, technological and commercial change. As I believe  this report  demonstrates, we  have  achieved a great  deal and we  are clear and realistic in our awareness that we  have  a great  deal still to do.



The Lord Browne of Madingley
Group Chief Executive
April 2007

---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- BP 2007
Group chief executive’s introduction

It is a privilege to introduce this report  for the first time as BP’s group chief executive. I am very conscious of the need to manage BP’s business in a way that contributes to our long-term sustainability and that of the society and environment around  us. Today, I believe that the best preparation for our sustainability is to focus  on three priorities: safety, people and performance. Safety is at the heart  of responsibility. Every action we take depends on our people. And performance provides us with the opportunity to make  a broader contribution to society.
In terms of safety, we are still learning lessons from the tragic incident  at Texas City in 2005. In early 2007, the independent panel chaired  by former  US Secretary of State James A Baker, III reported on safety at our US refineries. We agreed to implement all its recommendations and we are now working to do so. As the panel recommended, we have appointed an independent expert to monitor our progress and he has made his first annual report
to the board, a summary of which can be found in this document. We are also now  introducing our new  operating management system (OMS), designed to bring greater consistency to our operations. Our aim is to have  commenced use  of the  OMS throughout BP by the end of 2010. My executive team continues to monitor  closely our safety performance. This shows that,  since
1999  after the BP?Amoco  merger, our safety performance has improved by approximately two-thirds, while over the past two years  our record  has been our best ever. We continue to aspire  to our ultimate goal of: no accidents, no harm to people, no damage to the environment.
To achieve excellence, we also need the right people with the right skills in the right places. The report  explains how we are redoubling our efforts in this area by enhancing the way we recruit talented people and provide opportunities for development.
BP’s financial performance during 2007  was  disappointing and in response I have outlined  a forward  agenda designed to make our business simpler  and more  efficient. Our focus  is on moving  resources to the  front-line operations where they  are needed and we expect this to result  in an overall reduction in employee numbers.
In the  industry, the  year was  marked by high and volatile prices, rising concerns about  climate  change and fears  over security of energy supplies as some governments asserted greater control  over national  resources.
As we set out our response to these challenges, we must start  by acknowledging that BP is predominantly an oil and gas business. However, this is not incompatible with environmental progress because there will be a continuing  role for fossil fuels in the future alongside greater energy efficiency and more low-carbon energy. Our aim is not to abandon fossil fuels, but to produce and use  them more  efficiently, while scaling up and investing significant resources in the new  technologies we need for the transition to a low-carbon future. This is what  we mean by going ‘beyond petroleum’ and it is reflected in this report.
Chapter 1 covers actions designed to build safe reliable operations. It is split into three sections: Safety; Managing our impacts; and People. Chapter 2 highlights progress in  moving towards a low-carbon future, including BP Alternative Energy’s record, for example in expanding our solar and wind power businesses. Chapter 3 covers our contributions to sustainable development, which,  again,  are rooted in our operations. I am committed to making BP a local energy company everywhere we work, employing local staff, supporting local enterprise and developing local leaders. As we do so, we value partnerships with governments, NGOs and others through membership of the UN Global Compact and frameworks such as the Voluntary Principles on Security and Human  Rights.
This report  is our fifth using the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Guidelines and the second reporting against the GRI’s G3 guidelines. Once  again, we also report  against the IPIECA/API indicators, which provide guidance on voluntary disclosure for the oil and gas industry.
We value your scrutiny  and we hope  that you see in this report  evidence of our determination to make  BP a sustainable business and to contribute to the world’s sustainability.

Tony Hayward
Group Chief Executive
May 2008


---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- BP 2008
Group chief executive’s review
Tony Hayward Group Chief Executive

Driving forward

Tony Hayward, BP’s group chief executive (GCE), discusses sustainability-related issues, including some frequently raised by those who read BP’s reports on environmental and social performance.

With so much of your focus on improving
BP’s performance, does this mean that the environment and your other sustainability commitments to stakeholders are less important? Not at all. I don’t see a distinction between sustainability and performance. My aim for BP is that its performance should be sustainable ? in other words everything we do each day should contribute in some way to the long-term health of BP and that of the environment and society.
We measure performance accordingly, not only with financial metrics but also with the data on safety, the environment and employees that you see in this Review. This reflects my top three priorities as chief executive: safety, people and performance. You can see a similar balanced approach in our new operating management system (OMS), which is to be implemented at each
BP site. It covers everything from compliance and risk management through to governance and measuring results. By including all these elements, we’re looking to the future as well as the present and I believe that is the foundation for responsible and best-in-class performance.

You have talked about reducing complexity ?what does this mean?
It means creating fewer interfaces between different teams so that issues can be considered and decisions taken more efficiently. This has two added benefits. First, it means everyone is clear about their accountabilities. Second, it removes layers of management and reduces costs. We have also introduced a new leadership framework to clarify our expectations for leaders’ behaviours across BP. This is supported by training through our managing essentials programme. At the frontline, the OMS gives operations teams much more clarity on what is expected of them. The actions we have taken over the past two years to reduce complexity and costs in BP mean that we are well positioned to meet the challenge of the current economic downturn.

In 2008 you committed to various projects that appear uneconomic as we move into 2009 with a global recession in prospect. Will you continue to invest in these projects?
We will continue to invest in projects that we believe are viable and necessary to meet demand for energy over the longer term. We keep all plans under review, but are mindful that energy investments are measured in decades and need to be tested against a range of possible future scenarios. We believe energy demand will rise in the long term, given the pace of industrialization in Asia and elsewhere. This approach is part of a wider balance we seek to strike, taking action on costs to respond to the current challenges and continuing to invest for long-term growth. At BP, we’ve been managing volatility for 100 years and our investment strategy is designed to balance long-term goals with short-term oil price cycle changes.

Is BP back-tracking on its commitments on climate change?
No. I’m proud that we are widely recognized as the first global energy company to call for action publicly over climate change and I unambiguously support that position today. We continue to strive for energy efficiency in our operations and are investing in low- carbon energy as well as engaging with governments and regulators to shape legislation that will facilitate progress towards a low-carbon economy and make it commercially viable.

Why is only around 5% of BP’s capital investment in alternative energy?
Today the vast majority of our returns come from oil and gas and they are likely to continue to do so. However, we also invest a significant amount in alternative energy technology compared with our peers and, for us, the key question is which technologies will make the greatest contribution to meeting energy demand while providing BP with strong growth businesses. We are prioritizing areas with significant long-term growth potential ? wind, solar, biofuels and CCS ? and we directed the majority of our $1.4 billion investment in low-carbon energy in 2008 to these areas. There is a complicated ? and still emerging ? incentive framework required to make lower carbon energy choices competitive with current energy sources.

How can a company that claims to go ‘beyond petroleum’ invest in the Canadian oil sands, where production is so energy-intensive?
A diversity of supplies is needed to meet future demand for reliable energy, ranging from zero-carbon technologies to more energy-intensive projects. Canadian oil sands, for example, provide a more secure source of oil supply to consumers in North America.
We recognize that oil sands projects raise significant environmental challenges, but we are actively seeking ways to undertake ours in a way that minimizes the environmental footprint.

Given mounting concern that a peak in oil production is close, with the International Energy Agency (IEA) admitting that the production decline rate for mature oil fields is nearly 7% a year, how will BP go about meeting future demand?
As a geologist and a businessman, I don’t believe the world is running out of oil in the near or foreseeable future. The data shows that there are around 40 years of proved oil reserves left in the ground and 60 years of natural gas, at today’s consumption rates, not including unconventional hydrocarbons. When it comes to meeting demand, the problems are above ground not below it.

How can policy frameworks help the industry to meet future demand sustainably?
The policy frameworks should support investments necessary to meet future energy demand as well as address the challenge of climate change. In order to stimulate investment, we need stable fiscal and regulatory policies and active support for a free and open energy market. We also need measures that enable the industry to find and develop new sources of oil and gas. Energy efficiency needs to be encouraged as it benefits both the environment and the economy.
In order to address climate change, carbon needs to be priced, preferably through cap-and-trade systems, so that its cost is included in everything from taking a train to turning on a light. There should also be transitional incentives that make low-carbon energy competitive with other energy sources, rewarding cost reductions and deployment at scale. And, in order to make our investments effective and efficient, we need a step-change in investment in research, development and deployment of energy technology.

Has BP really improved the safety and integrity management of its operations since the Texas City fire and explosion in 2005 and the Alaskan pipeline leaks in 2006?
Yes. Safe and reliable operations are BP’s number one priority and we have taken a series of actions to improve performance. The short-term programme has included improving processes to assess risks of major accidents and new standards for control of work and integrity management. For the longer term, we have introduced the OMS to improve the management of safety risks
and the quality of performance in our operations worldwide. While I deeply regret every fatality or injury, I’m encouraged by the overall improvement in our safety performance in 2008, as detailed in this review and our online report ? and recognize we still have a lot to do.

Why would someone want to work at BP?
BP is celebrating its centenary this year. The qualities that first drove us 100 years ago continue to drive us now. We’ve always been an organization that operates at the frontiers and that strives to make a difference in the world. A person joining BP now can expect a varied and challenging career in a successful, global business with a strong sense of its role and contribution to the world. That sounds to me like an exciting and interesting place to work. 


Highlights
? Progress with safe and reliable operations.
? Reduction in organizational complexity.
? Focused investment in low-carbon energy.

---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- BP 2009
Group chief executive’s review
Tony Hayward Group Chief Executive
April 2010

Diverse, innovative and efficient
Tony Hayward, BP’s group chief executive, discusses sustainability-related issues, including some frequently raised by those who read BP’s reports on environmental and social performance.

Energy is high on the public agenda. What are the priorities for its future?
Reliable and affordable supplies of hydrocarbon energy were taken for granted through much of the 20th century as they laid the foundation for the world’s economic progress. They will be just as fundamental in the future, particularly to meet rising demand in emerging economies such as China and India. What’s different today is that energy has become a complex challenge, with strategic, economic and environmental dimensions.
Energy security, climate change and the energy needed to support economic development and jobs will keep energy high on the public and political agenda for some considerable time. I believe the main ways to meet the world’s future energy challenges are through diversity, by accessing the widest range of energy sources; competition, by bringing out the best ways of finding, producing and distributing energy; and efficiency, by making the most of each unit of energy.

What role will an oil and gas company have in the decades to come?
According to International Energy Agency (IEA) projections, the world could potentially consume around 40% more energy in 2030 than we consume today ? requiring investment of at least $1 trillion every year in energy infrastructure. In meeting this demand sustainably, there will need to be changes in the energy mix. We will need more low-carbon energy and we need to use all forms of energy more efficiently. The share of energy derived from renewable sources will certainly increase in the future, and carbon capture technology could be deployed at scale. However, the IEA anticipates fossil fuels still being the dominant source of energy in 2030, even in a scenario in which major carbon emissions are tightly constrained over the next two decades.
In other words, the energy companies of the future will need to supply a diverse energy mix. The mix will be more than oil and gas ? but hydrocarbons will still be a major part of it.

So, what is BP doing to meet future energy demand for oil and gas?
Our analysis indicates the world has enough proved reserves to last for about 40 years for oil and 60 years for gas, at today’s consumption rates. There is also a lot more oil and gas to find ? but it requires working at the industry’s frontiers and continuing to innovate in our technology and processes, as indeed BP has done through its 100- year history. Our progress in deepwater exploration is a good example. Last year we made the Tiber discovery more than 10 kilometres beneath the Gulf of Mexico. That’s further below sea level than the top of Mount Everest is above it. That oil is in a geological layer, the lower tertiary, which we are only now starting to map and understand. We are also pioneering new technologies ? such as digital imaging of reservoirs and advanced drilling techniques
? to access gas that is locked in dense rock formations. We’re also getting more oil and gas out of mature fields. The average recovery rate from a reservoir is about 35%, but in our Prudhoe Bay development in Alaska we now expect to recover around
60% of the oil as a result of our enhanced oil recovery processes.

How significant is BP’s deal in Iraq?
Our deal to increase production from the Rumaila field is significant in several ways. It gives us a great opportunity to work with the people of Iraq and our partner China National Petroleum Company to develop one of the world’s great oilfields. We see this as the beginning of a long-term relationship that will be instrumental in helping Iraq to rebuild its economy after years of war and sanctions. The investment in Rumaila will support Iraq in achieving its ambition of becoming a major player in global oil markets once again and will catalyse training and development opportunities for the many thousands of Iraqis working in Rumaila.

How do you respond to people’s concerns about BP and Canadian oil sands?
Our Sunrise joint venture in the Canadian oil sands will make a significant contribution to energy security for North America. The project will be using steam assisted gravity drainage, which is close to conventional reservoir engineering. We plan to use our technology capabilities to achieve a high level of energy efficiency and minimize the greenhouse gas emissions associated with this form of oil sands production. We won’t be pursuing Canadian oil sands mining projects. And, as with all new projects, we follow an established environmental and social practice, which includes water management, land use and community relations.

How do you view the outcome of the 2009 Copenhagen conference on climate change?
The Copenhagen conference had some very important outcomes even though a formal global treaty was not agreed. For the first time since the climate debate began in earnest some 20 years ago, the vast majority of the world’s countries are aligned and heading in the same direction. Most importantly, China and the US are on board and politically committed to a negotiating process with a timetable and an agreed goal. Meanwhile, on the ground, many governments are acting to set emissions targets and companies like BP are responding with investments in energy efficiency and low-carbon energy. For a long time, BP has advocated a proactive approach to climate change and supported action to curb carbon emissions. However, governments also need to lead and create ways of reducing emissions that are fair, consistent and effective. We want to see a price put on carbon emissions, which treats all carbon as equal whether from the tailpipe or smokestack. The best way to achieve this, we believe, is through market mechanisms that encourage the most efficient ways to cut emissions.

What is BP specifically doing to address climate change in its plans for meeting the world’s future energy needs?
For BP, supporting the transition to a low-carbon economy has several dimensions. We are improving energy efficiency in BP’s own operations through close performance monitoring as well as developing more efficient fuels and lubricants. We are promoting natural gas as a key part of the energy future ? gas is easily the cleanest burning fossil fuel, as well as being efficient, versatile and abundantly available. We are also including a cost of carbon in investment appraisals for all new major projects to allow informed investment in fossil fuels and encourage development of the technology needed to reduce their carbon footprint. And finally, we are investing in our low-carbon businesses. Since 2005
we have invested around $4 billion in Alternative Energy, with our activity focused on advanced biofuels, our wind business in the US, solar power, and carbon capture and storage.

What progress has BP made on safety during 2009?
Safety is fundamental to our success as a company and 2009 was important because of the progress we made in implementing our operating management system (OMS). The OMS contains rigorous and tested processes for reducing risks and driving continuous improvement. I see it as the foundation for a safe, responsible and high-performing BP. Having been initially introduced at eight sites in 2008, the OMS rollout extended to 70 sites by the end of 2009, including all our operated refineries and petrochemicals plants. This means implementation is 80% complete. I’m proud that our injury rates have come down around 75% in the past decade. However, we still have work to do and I deeply regret the two deaths we suffered in operations at BP sites last year. My deep sympathies are also with the families of those 16 colleagues who died in a helicopter accident on their way back from North Sea assignments in April 2009. We are closely following the work being done by investigators and the helicopter industry to enable lessons to be learned.

Does BP have the right capabilities among its people to meet the challenges of the future?
Our people agenda has been a key aspect of BP’s transformation over the past few years. I think our improved performance is a good indication that we do have the right people in the right places with the right skills. We have developed a new leadership framework ensuring we value and deepen specialist expertise. We have put in place extensive programmes to build the professional skills of our people, with a particular focus on operations. And we’re fostering a culture  of operational excellence and continuous improvement across all our activities.
I am also absolutely committed to making BP a real meritocracy that reflects the communities it works in and genuinely practises diversity and inclusion. I want this to be a place where everyone can fulfil their potential. That is good for the individuals but it is also good for business.

Does BP need to operate according to internal standards or follow external benchmarks on sustainability-related issues?
Both, depending on the issue in question. We are responsible for our operations and we are accountable for setting and observing consistent and high standards within them. Our code of conduct, for example, provides clear expectations on behaviour and compliance. However, on wider issues where our influence extends into society more generally, we support relevant external standards. In particular, we support the UN Global Compact, which sets out a series of principles for corporate responsibility. My goal is that BP should not only be a leader in what we do ? by achieving excellent financial and operational results ? but also in how we do it, because the ‘how’ is central to building the trust and accountability needed for long-term success. We have emerged from 2009 in great shape and with a renewed confidence and determination to realize our potential both in the short and the long term.


Highlights
? Improved financial performance.
? Progress on safe and reliable operations.
? People agenda essential to BP’s transformation.

---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- BP 2010

A letter from our group chief executive

Each year, BP’s Sustainability Report looks at how our progress contributes towards our long-term
prospects as a company and to society as a whole. This report should, therefore, start with a clear acknowledgement ? 2010 was a year that called BP’s sustainability into question.
The tragic accident in the Gulf of Mexico on 20 April 2010 cost 11 lives, leading to a major oil spill and a widespread loss of trust in BP. We are so very sorry for what happened. Nothing can replace the people who died and our thoughts remain with their loved ones.
Our task now is to earn back the trust that was lost and build a sustainable BP for the future. This report explains the measures we are taking to strengthen safety, restore trust and build shareholder value responsibly for the long term.

The Gulf of Mexico accident and response
The explosion on the Deepwater Horizon oil platform and the consequent oil spill were terrible events that should never have happened. Having grown up in Mississippi, I know the Gulf Coast well and
I have been deeply saddened by the widespread impact on the local environment and economy.
We took responsibility for the clean-up immediately. The response effort was one of unprecedented scale, which ? at its peak ? involved 48,000 people, 6,500 vessels and 125 aircraft. We set up the $20-billion Deepwater Horizon Oil Spill Trust for claims and certain other costs, and have provided hundreds of millions of dollars for economic, health and environmental programmes. We suspended dividend payments for three quarters and initiated $30 billion of asset sales to provide confidence that we could meet our commitments ? in 2010 and the coming years.

A safer, stronger BP
As well as meeting our obligations in the Gulf of Mexico, we are now focused on building a safer and stronger BP everywhere we work. This determination will drive how we manage risk, how we operate, how we partner with others and how we reward our employees.
To ensure that our enhancements to safety and risk management are applied quickly, thoroughly and effectively, we are carrying out a wide-ranging change programme. We have set up a new safety and operational risk function that has its specialist personnel embedded in BP’s businesses, working alongside the line management to guide, advise and, if needed, to intervene.
We have accepted and are implementing the recommendations made in our investigation report, published in September 2010. We are sharing what we have learned about deepwater drilling and oil spill response with the industry, governments and regulators. We are co-operating with a series of investigations, and we are supporting initiatives to bring about necessary regulatory change.
During 2010, we suffered three fatalities besides those sustained in the Deepwater Horizon accident ? a loss of life that we deeply regret ? and our overall recordable injury frequency rose as a result of response activities, such as beach cleaning.
We fully understand the need to deliver safe and productive operations. We have made some progress, but there is more to do and we know that. Given the nature of the challenges we take on, BP can never eliminate risk, but we can work with others to better understand, limit and manage risk.
Insight and wisdom from beyond our own industry will help in this regard. We have engaged with experts from other sectors and I am pleased that our recent board appointments include Frank L ‘Skip’ Bowman, former head of the US Navy’s Naval Nuclear Propulsion Programme; Brendan Nelson, former vice-chairman of KPMG, who has vast financial and auditing experience; and Phuthuma Nhleko, who brings deep experience of emerging markets.

Reshaping BP
BP’s mission for 2011 and beyond is to grow value for our shareholders in a way that is safe and sustainable. 2011 will be a year of consolidation in which we focus on our number one priority ? safety ? and strengthen the drivers of long-term performance, such as risk management, capability and relationships. We will invest in areas where we excel, such as exploration, and we will enter into new types of relationships with partners.
We are also divesting businesses that are more valuable or strategic to others than ourselves. This includes reshaping our downstream business to better reflect the changing patterns of global energy demand, where growth is concentrated in emerging markets. One outcome of this strategy is our decision to divest some US-based businesses, notably the Texas City and Carson refineries. We very much appreciate the work that our teams have done there. At Texas City, great progress has been made in safety since the accident there in 2005. We are committed to handling the transition to other operators with respect and sensitivity, in keeping with our belief in being a responsible member of each community where we operate.
We are also developing groundbreaking strategic partnerships with national oil companies and other resource holders. Our new partnerships with Rosneft in Russia and Reliance Industries in India illustrate this strategy in action. With Rosneft, we will seek to explore and develop the Russian Arctic continental shelf, and have agreed to jointly establish an Arctic technology centre in Russia to promote safety, environmental integrity and emergency-spill-response capability. Through our agreement with Reliance, we will have a major stake in a large offshore basin and create a joint venture to source and market gas in in the growing Indian market.

The changing energy landscape
We create value for shareholders by providing the energy that a growing population needs to generate progress and prosperity. Our recent projection of energy trends, BP Energy Outlook
2030, indicates in its ‘base case’ that primary energy use could grow by nearly 40% over the next
20 years, with more than 90% of demand growth coming from emerging economies.
Whatever precise trajectory demand takes, all forms of energy will be required to meet rising demand, with fossil fuels remaining an essential part of the energy mix for decades. With global oil production from existing fields declining by around 5% a year, it’s vital that new fields are discovered and developed. This is why BP will continue to move farther into harsh, remote and complex geographies, from deep water to the Russian Arctic; from oil sands and unconventional gas to giant fields ? such as Rumaila in Iraq. We believe we can help meet energy demand and create returns for investors by applying our distinctive skills, capabilities and technologies in these demanding areas.
We remain acutely aware that we must continue to address the challenge of climate change. As a company, we are acting to limit greenhouse gas emissions. We are building our business in natural gas, which provides a lower-carbon  alternative to coal and represents an important transition resource from fossil fuels to renewables. We are also including a carbon price in new project development plans to encourage efficiency and we continue to invest in low-carbon renewable energies.
Since 2005, BP has invested more than $5 billion in its alternative energy businesses and we expect to invest a further $1 billion in 2011 to participate in the rapidly growing low-carbon energy markets. We are focusing investment on lower-carbon options that best match our core strengths and future market growth. Our biofuels business is well positioned to address opportunities in a rapidly growing sector. We are also investing in low-carbon power, including a substantial and growing wind business based in the US.
While it is ultimately for governments to determine the pace of transition to a lower-carbon  economy, BP is committed to making a progressive contribution. In my experience, BP and its employees feel as strongly about the long-term sustainability of the world as anyone else, and we want to play our part in addressing the complex issues involved.

Sustainable value
2010 shook BP to its core. To those who ask if we truly understand the implications, let me say firmly that ‘we get it’. We understand that business-as-usual is not an option, and we are making substantial changes to the way we work.
I hope the actions I have outlined show that, after a profoundly difficult year, BP is addressing its weaknesses and enhancing its strengths. Our goal is to rebuild this company so it can create value safely and sustainably. I know the readers of this report will hold us to that objective and
I welcome your interest and scrutiny.

Bob Dudley

Group Chief Executive
22 March 2011

---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- BP 2011
A letter from our group chief executive 
Reviewing his first full year as group chief executive, Bob Dudley sets out the actions being taken to make BP a stronger, safer company


People have high expectations of BP ? from our shareholders, employees and partners to our customers and the communities in which we operate. Expectations have been raised even higher since the Deepwater Horizon accident and oil spill. During 2011, I visited
16 countries in addition to the UK, and had many frank discussions about BP’s role and responsibilities. It is clear that what we do matters to people, and that open communication is valued ? and expected.
The employees of BP are working with great determination to make BP a stronger, safer company. We have set three clear priorities ? safety must be enhanced, trust earned back, and greater value delivered to our shareholders. We know we don’t have all the answers, but we will keep learning and striving for continuous improvement. We will do our best to keep you informed.
This Sustainability Review is part of our engagement with the wider world. Inside, we report on the measures we are taking with the aim of meeting our responsibilities.

Meeting our responsibilities in the Gulf of Mexico
BP has been working closely with local communities and government agencies on the restoration of the Gulf Coast. During the year, we continued to meet our commitments to those affected. All legitimate claims for compensation have been, and will continue to be met. By the end of 2011, $7.8 billion had been paid for claims, advances and other payments. On 3 March 2012 we announced a settlement with the Plaintiffs’ Steering Committee, subject to final written agreement and court approvals, to resolve the substantial majority of legitimate economic loss and medical claims made by individual and business plaintiffs in the Multi-District Litigation proceedings pending in New Orleans (MDL 2179). The legal process continues with other parties.
Throughout the year, BP helped promote two industries vital to the success of the region ? tourism and seafood. I am heartened that visitors have returned, with some areas reporting record seasons. And it was a great moment for the region when the final area of previously-closed federal fishing waters in the Gulf was reopened for commercial fishing in April 2011.
As part of our commitment to environmental restoration, BP is providing up to $1 billion for early restoration projects designed to accelerate efforts to restore natural resources that were injured as a result of the accident.
We are also contributing $500 million over 10 years to support independent research to create a better understanding of the Gulf ecosystem and help the industry and others prevent and mitigate the potential impacts of oil spills in the region and elsewhere.
We have co-operated with all external investigations into the accident and spill. The official reports to date have supported the core conclusion of our own investigation.
Namely, that this was a complex accident that involved multiple parties and had multiple causes. We still have a challenging period ahead of us. The legal processes around the incident are complex. The exact shape, form and timetable are not yet clear.

Enhancing safety, earning back trust
2011 saw us voluntarily implement enhanced standards on drilling in the Gulf of Mexico and other deepwater operations. We were pleased to receive the go-ahead from the US government to resume drilling and, by year-end, we had five rigs running.
Of course, the changes being made to enhance the way we work are not limited to the Gulf Coast. For example, we strengthened our risk management systems and processes throughout the company. We hired people from high-hazard sectors ? including nuclear energy, chemicals and the military ? to deepen the expertise of our safety and operational risk function. And we put in place new approaches to oil spill response and containment. Our teams have designed a new type of capping stack, which stands ready for deployment in the event of a leak in deep water anywhere in the world.
As we move forward, we will maintain a relentless focus on safety and risk management, and we will support the adoption of new standards across our industry. In 2011, our teams went to 25 countries and shared with regulators and industry peers the lessons we have learned.

Creating value, meeting demand
We expect the continuation of strong growth in the world’s most dynamic economies to drive even greater demand for energy. The BP Energy Outlook 2030 projects that global energy demand could grow by as much as 40% by 2030.
This is based on expected long-term trends in demand and supply, as well as the potential evolution of economic, political and technological factors. That’s the equivalent of adding one more China and one more US to world energy consumption. Energy that is affordable, secure and accessible will be needed to maintain the momentum of growth in developing economies.
While we feel a strong responsibility to help meet this growing demand, we also share widespread concerns about the rising global CO2 emission levels that it implies.
BP supports government action to limit emissions and deliver a sustainable energy mix, including placing a price on carbon, increasing energy efficiency and providing transitional incentives that enable renewable energy to become competitive at scale.
We are contributing towards a lower- carbon future in several ways: by producing natural gas at scale as a cleaner alternative in power generation; by providing fuels and
lubricants that improve vehicle efficiency; by driving efficiency in our own operations; by building commercial-scale renewable energy businesses in biofuels and wind; and by supporting a range of small, lower-carbon businesses as part of our venturing activity. However, we are moving out of the solar business as it has become a low-margin commodity market and is no longer aligned with our business strategy.
The search for energy resources will not get any easier. Deepwater drilling; unconventional gas; oil sands; giant fields ? there are tough technical, environmental and social challenges ahead in every area. Technology has a particularly helpful role to play in the safe and sustainable development of energy resources. It is also essential to acknowledge that our work will always involve some risk, and that we must keep focused on managing the risks inherent in our business.

Looking ahead
We are clear on our responsibilities. We want to be recognized as a good corporate citizen that can be trusted by everyone involved in, or affected by, what we do. The nature of our business demands that we keep working to strengthen safety and risk management.
Our refreshed values, code of conduct and strategy are designed to do just that, as well as create value for our shareholders. We will seek to report clearly and be always ready to listen to other points of view. I believe that by helping to meet the world’s energy needs in a responsible and sustainable way, a stronger and safer BP will be a powerful contributor to growth and progress.

Bob Dudley

Group Chief Executive
21 March 2012



Our strategy and sustainability
BP’s objective is to create value for shareholders by helping to meet the world’s growing energy needs safely and responsibly

We strive to be a safety leader in our industry, a world-class operator, a responsible corporate citizen and a good employer. We are working to enhance safety and risk management, earn back trust and grow value.
Keeping a relentless focus on safety is a top priority for us. Rigorous management of risk helps to protect the people at the frontline, the places in which we operate and the value we create. We understand that operating in politically-complex regions and technically-demanding geographies, such as deep water and oil sands, requires particular sensitivity to local environments. We continue to enhance our systems, processes and standards, including how we manage contractors.
We can only operate if we maintain the trust of people inside and outside the company. We must earn people’s trust by being fair and responsible in everything we do. We monitor our performance closely and aim to report in a transparent way.
We believe good communication and open dialogue are vital if we are to meet the expectations of our employees, customers, shareholders and the local communities in which we operate.
We are working to become a simpler business, with a clear focus on what we do best. Our distinctive capabilities include exploration, operations in deep water, the managing of giant fields and gas value chains, and our world-class downstream business ? underpinned by technology and relationships. Strong financial performance is vital, because it enables us to make the investments necessary to produce the energy that society requires, as well as to reward and maintain the support of our shareholders. By supplying energy, we support economic development and help to improve quality of life for millions of people. Our activities also generate jobs, investment, infrastructure and revenues for governments and local communities.
Our portfolio includes lower-carbon options with the potential to make a significant contribution, now and in the future.


---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- BP 2012

Whenever I visit a BP site, I am struck by the wide range of people involved in, and affected by, what we do. From employees, partners and suppliers to governments, investors and those who live next to one of our facilities ? everyone has high expectations of this company. We must fulfil those expectations, and meet our range of responsibilities, as we work to create a stronger, safer BP.

Our responsibilities include helping to address the world’s growing need for energy. Some 100 years ago society consumed energy at a rate of around two million tonnes of oil equivalent a day. Today the figure is closer to 32 million and we expect that could rise to as much as 45 million by 2030, if current trends continue.

Behind these big numbers you find a story of human progress. Reliable and affordable sources of energy can help to improve many things, from living standards to life expectancy. Around the world, a growing supply of energy is helping to lift people out of poverty and increase opportunity.

From safety comes trust

BP has an important contribution to make to the changing world I have just described. But we can only play our part if we start from the solid foundation of safe and reliable operations. Following the Deepwater Horizon incident, our employees have worked systematically to enhance safety and risk management. And we have turned the insights gained into new oil spill response plans and technologies, which we are adopting within BP and sharing with others.

As someone who has worked in the oil and gas industry for more than 30 years, I know that risk can never be entirely eliminated. But it can be managed effectively, and in increasingly sophisticated ways. The events of 2010 were a tragic reminder that trust can take years to earn and just moments to lose. I am determined this company will earn back and keep people’s trust.

We continue to meet our commitments to the people of the Gulf states in the US. In 2012 we made the final payment into the $20-billion trust fund, of which $9.5 billion has been distributed to date. We continued to support environmental research, and provided funding for the local tourism industry, with many areas having record years in 2012. We reached settlements with the Department of Justice and the Securities and Exchange Commission, and are working with the Environmental Protection Agency to resolve suspension and debarment issues. As I write, legal proceedings are ongoing in New Orleans.

The Gulf of Mexico is very important to BP. Our commitment to the restoration of affected areas and long-term investment in the region will continue.

Working around the world

Wherever we operate around the world, BP keeps working to develop strong relationships with governments and local communities. The socio-economic development, environment and other issues covered in this review are important to BP and to me personally. They are essential in determining whether people trust BP to operate in their area.

2012 marked a significant change to our relationships in Russia when we agreed to sell our 50% shareholding in TNK-BP to Rosneft, and take our holding in Rosneft to 19.75%. On completion, the transaction will enable us to maintain a strong position in the world’s largest oil and gas producing country. We aim to share our expertise with the Rosneft team as they work to transform the company’s asset base, management processes and corporate governance.

I would like to reflect, with great sadness, on the terrible events that took place at the In Amenas joint venture facility in Algeria in January 2013. Our thoughts are with the families and friends of those who lost their lives in the attack. We are working with government agencies and others to determine what can be learned from this shocking incident.

Making choices for BP

We have made many changes to what we do and how we do it, turning lessons learned into action. We have reorganized and refocused. The sale of $38 billion of assets is helping us to reduce complexity and risk, and concentrate investment on our areas of distinctive strength. And we have set a new direction for the company based on a clear strategy. 

Our aim is to keep building a BP that is well matched to the world’s evolving energy needs. Collaboration and systematic rigour will be increasingly important as we tackle the tough technical, environmental and social challenges ahead in areas such as deep water, giant fields and unconventional gas. In unconventional gas, for example, hydraulic fracturing can provide a safe and secure source of energy if undertaken in the right way.

Along with providing much needed energy today, BP is helping to address longer-term issues related to energy use. For example, we apply a carbon price to some of our new projects, and require existing operations to consider and implement cost-effective efficiency measures. We inform debate by conducting analysis and supporting research. We invest in biofuels and wind because we think they can play an important role in the diverse energy mix required.

Informing the big decisions

Just as BP is taking important decisions about its strategic priorities, so the wider world must make choices about future energy supply and use. How should a growing demand for energy be balanced with the need to address rising greenhouse gas emissions? Is there the necessary political will to set a universal price for carbon? Will the research, development and deployment of important lower-carbon energy technologies be given adequate support? These and other questions must be considered as governments, business, non-governmental organizations and the public work together to set the right direction.

There are no easy answers and there is unlikely to be agreement on all sides on every point, but it is essential that our debates and decisions are based on a deep understanding of the issues involved, not sentiment. This is why, for example, BP is funding the Energy Sustainability Challenge, a consortium of academics that is analysing the complex relationships between energy and natural resources. Energy literacy is the key to making the right choices for the future.

Moving forward

I believe a stronger and safer BP can make a vital contribution to growth and progress as the world develops over the coming decades. There is plenty to do, as we work on our priorities of enhancing safety and risk management, earning back trust and creating value. We intend to play a positive role in shaping the long-term future of energy. This Sustainability Review is part of a wider commitment to engage with the world on what we do and how we do it. We aspire to communicate openly about our responsibilities, our actions and our perspectives on global energy issues as we move forward.

---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- BP 2013

Within BP, 2013 will sadly be remembered for the terrorist attack in Algeria in January, when four staff members and 36 colleagues from other companies were killed. Those who died had many friends in BP and our thoughts remain with their loved ones, as well as with those who survived that terrible ordeal. I was proud of the way that people in BP responded with great compassion, but also with great fortitude. 

In Algeria and around the world, we have an important role to play in finding and delivering much needed resources of oil and gas to meet the growing energy demand. It is vital we conduct our operations in a safe and responsible way. But what does ‘safe and responsible’ mean in practice? Here are a few examples.

In Papua, we are consulting widely with local groups who may be affected by the planned expansion of our gas facilities at Tangguh. We have held public consultation meetings in over 60 villages and have involved elected community leaders in the hearings that will determine how the facilities are developed.

In the Gulf of Mexico, we are supporting environmental restoration efforts after the 2010 oil spill and paying all legitimate claims for compensation, while getting back to work on our 10 offshore rigs and production facilities. We are also representing the interests of our shareholders and staff by rightly challenging claims that we believe to be unfounded.

In China, we are working to reduce the impact of petrochemicals manufacturing on water resources. Our latest PTA plant in Zhuhai uses a recycling technique ? developed by BP ? that reduces water discharge by 75%. Meanwhile, in the Middle East we are partnering with Harvard University to help better plan how we access and use water at our facilities.

That last example underlines that we don’t work alone. In fact, close collaboration with others is becoming ever more important as the scale and complexity of energy challenges multiply.

Take offshore drilling and safety. In 2013 we worked with regulators in Azerbaijan, Brazil and Libya on oil spill response planning. This included sharing what we have learned about dispersants and many forms of logistics.

2013 also saw us enter into a new partnership in Russia with Rosneft, and we can already see enormous potential for collaboration between the two companies. I believe BP’s experience, capabilities and influence will prove valuable over the coming years as Russia looks to develop more of its vast resources safely and securely.

There is one thing that we can rely on about the future ? it will surprise us. The shale gas revolution in the US shows just how fast the energy landscape can change. Thanks to technological innovation, access to this lower-carbon resource has not only led to increased gas and oil production, lower energy prices and new jobs, but also to lower greenhouse gas emissions as gas has replaced coal in power generation. 

The lower carbon option became the lower cost option ? demonstrating the power of market forces to reduce emissions when the conditions are right. This example is instructive as the world seeks to achieve the right balance between the affordability, security and sustainability of energy supplies. 

Open and well-informed discussion ? between governments, business, academic bodies, non-governmental organizations and the public ? is vital as priorities are debated and solutions developed. And BP plays its part in this discussion, particularly in encouraging governments to apply a carbon price. This would level the playing field by incentivizing the production and use of lower-carbon options.

These are just a handful of examples of the actions we are taking to conduct our operations in a safe and responsible way. This Sustainability Review ? together with bp.com/sustainability ? is part of our commitment to report clearly on what we do and the effect our actions have. I believe it shows that BP aims to make a positive contribution to the world for many years to come.

---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- BP 2014

At BP we regularly pass milestones that, for me, are important reminders of the sustainability of our business. In 2014, for example, we celebrated 50 years in the UK North Sea, 50 years in Egypt and the 20th anniversary of our oil business in Azerbaijan. 

In other countries our history goes back much further. In the United States, for example, our business can be traced back to the 19th century.

The value we bring to society can take many forms. We produce and deliver energy for heat, power and transportation. In doing so, we employ around 85,000 people across the world, create thousands more jobs in supply chains, build useful infrastructure and pay taxes that fund public services ? around $8 billion in 2014.

When I meet people in my job ? from heads of government to community leaders ? I am always conscious that it is by delivering real benefits to the countries where we work that we earn our licence to operate.

We align our interests with those of local economies by using local suppliers, building local capacity and supporting local communities. In Trinidad & Tobago, as one example, we have helped to build up the islands’ gas platform construction industry, established globally respected programmes in petroleum geosciences and other disciplines at the University of the West Indies, and invested in a micro-finance programme that has distributed more than 3,000 loans and created thousands of jobs. 

In Iraq, we have worked with local partners and PetroChina to renew the super giant Rumaila oil field, in the process raising skill levels among Iraqi workers ? with half a million training hours completed last year alone. 

Of course, as a business working in many countries we face challenges and choices. We are always learning but I believe that we can act as a positive force, aiming to set high standards in safety, employment practices, transparency and human rights. When challenged over our operations in a particular country, my acid test is to ask whether the community or country is likely to be better for our involvement. If the answer is yes, then I believe we are right to be there. 

In 2014, we delivered the plan we set out in 2011 to make BP a safer, stronger and better performing business ? recognizing that we need to remain focused in this pursuit. Compared with 2011, we had fewer safety-related incidents and 50% more operating cash flow in 2014.

However, we tragically suffered three fatalities in the workforce and, after a year of very strong progress in safety in 2013, we saw a somewhat higher number of incidents in 2014.

We know we can never be complacent and are continuing our efforts to learn lessons from incidents, ensure conformance with our operating management system and emphasise the right personal behaviours, taking great care in everything we do.

Our relationship with Rosneft continues to attract attention, given the tensions in Ukraine. We remain committed to our long-term investment ? contributing to Rosneft’s strategy through the sharing of environmental and safety best practice. And, of course, we will comply with all relevant sanctions.

In the US, we continue to support the environmental restoration of areas affected by the Gulf of Mexico oil spill ? along with research into understanding any potential longer-term impacts. And, through our operations, investments and our 18,000 employees, we estimate our positive economic impact at $143 billion a year. As regards to the US legal proceedings, we are seeking fair and just outcomes while protecting the best interests of our shareholders. 

Meanwhile we are playing our part in addressing climate change ? by investing in natural gas and renewables as lower-carbon sources of fuel and power, factoring a cost of carbon into our evaluation of proposed projects and advocating for a global carbon price. 

Across all of these issues and more, our aim is to maintain a business that is resilient in challenging times and continues to benefit our stakeholders, including society at large. 

Thank you for reading this report.
