------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Shell 2004

Message from the Group Chief Executive

It was a year of real contrasts for us, in which we delivered record earnings and also faced up to the challenge of addressing the very difficult issues that arose from the recategorisation of our proved reserves. We took important steps to rebuild trust and lay the foundation  for our future business success, making major improvements to the way we book reserves, proposing far reaching changes to the way we are governed and making progress implementing our business strategy.

The events of the last year have only reinforced my belief that making sustainable development an integral part of how we do our business is critical for our future success. The growth
of energy companies in the decades ahead will depend on their ability to operate with integrity and to listen and respond to society¡¯s expectations  for their operations and products.

Sustainable development starts with the safety of our people.
I am pleased with the improvements to our safety performance in 2004, and in particular the progress made through our road safety programmes. However, I deeply regret that two employees and 35 contractors lost their lives at work. Of these fatalities,
18 were caused by road accidents or security incidents. Improving our safety performance remains a top priority.

Sustainable development also means improving our environmental and social performance. Over the past few years, we have made challenging and, in several cases, industry-leading commitments in areas like biodiversity, reducing our greenhouse gas emissions, and ending the continuous flaring of gas. The progress we made on these in 2004 represents a lot of hard work. It is also clear
to me that we cannot take our eye off the ball, particularly
in Nigeria where we expect delays in our programme to end continuous flaring. Implementing our commitments will continue to require attention and focus over the coming years.

We continued our efforts to understand better and manage the impacts we have on the communities where we operate. Our Oil Products business met its target to have social performance plans in place at the 28 major facilities it operates near communities
in 2004. We increased our efforts to improve environmental performance and rebuilt relationships at several locations where we had lost the trust of our neighbours. I am pleased to see the strong relationships with the local community at Norco.

Contributing to sustainable development also involves helping to meet the world¡¯s growing demand for energy in more environmentally and socially responsible ways. We continued to develop and provide cleaner products for customers,  for example launching cleaner burning V-Power transport fuels in the United States, making more than 40 countries where we offer premium quality fuel.

This report has again been prepared in line with the Global Reporting Initiative guidelines. I believe it represents a balanced and reasonable presentation of our organisation¡¯s economic, environmental and social performance.

I hope it helps you to judge our performance for yourself.

Jeroen van der Veer
Group Chief Executive

-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------Supplementary Information

¡°This report describes our efforts in 2004 to live up to our commitment to contribute to sustainable development.¡±

------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Shell 2005

INTRODUCTION FROM THE CHIEF  EXECUTIVE

Welcome to The Shell Sustainability  Report, 2005.  This report is part of our continuing dialogue with stakeholders.  It looks back at our environmental
and social performance in 2005.  It outlines our commitment  to helping  meet the world¡¯s future energy needs. And it describes our efforts to fulfil this commitment in environmentally and socially responsible ways.

For Shell, 2005  was a year of recovery. Soaring global demand for oil and gas meant high prices and record profits. We continued to put most of our profits back into our business. We have more than doubled our investment level since 2002  to help meet growing demand for energy, diversify oil and gas supplies, reduce environmental impacts of fossil fuels, and develop alternatives.

Last year I saw the real willingness of Shell people to listen, to learn, and to work with stakeholders, sometimes in very challenging  conditions.  In Nigeria, for example, we made good progress
in the programme  to end continuous flaring, and continued to improve our community development activities, by working more closely with local people and development  experts.  I am saddened that the deteriorating  security situation may make progress in both these areas harder in 2006.  The massive Sakhalin  II project  in Russia also showed  a real commitment to working with others, from independent whale experts to local indigenous people. The project  took important steps to reduce impacts and respond to stakeholders¡¯ concerns.

I was particularly proud of our people¡¯s efforts to help local communities and repair vital energy infrastructure after the Asian tsunami, the earthquakes in Pakistan and India, and the hurricanes in the US Gulf of Mexico. Being  the first major company to return its operations  to New Orleans  after the hurricanes exemplifies for me our deep commitment to the communities where we operate.

There is more to be done. We need to strengthen our safety culture further if our performance is to continue to improve,  using the three Golden Rules we introduced last year. I deeply regret that three employees  and 33 contractors  lost their lives at work in 2005.  Ten of these fatalities occurred  in road accidents, despite our major programmes in this area. Relationships with our neighbours can still break down, even in new projects like Corrib in Ireland.

Continuing to rebuild  the trust of local communities and improving safety performance are two areas of focus in 2006.  A third is making progress with managing greenhouse gas emissions, including efforts to capture and store carbon dioxide that can help us develop  greener  fossil fuels.

The progress we have made in 2005,  and the commitment, professionalism and integrity of the Shell people, make me confident that we set the right priorities  for 2006:  ¡°delivery and growth¡±.

As I discuss  in an interview on page four, I am more convinced  than ever that our short- and long-term business success depend on finding environmentally and socially responsible ways to help meet the world¡¯s future energy needs.

I hope this report helps you judge for yourself how well we are doing in helping to meet the energy challenge.

Jeroen van der Veer 
Chief Executive

----------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Supplementary Information


We commit to contribute to sustainable development.  This requires balancing short - and long-term interests, and integrating economic, environmental and social considerations into business decision-making.
Shell General Business Principles, revised 2005

¡°I am more convinced  than ever that our short -  and long- term business success depend on finding environmentally and socially responsible ways to help meet the world¡¯s future energy needs.¡±
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Shell 2006

Introduction from the Chief Executive

Welcome to The Shell Sustainability  Report, which describes our efforts in 2006 to help meet the global energy challenge.

As the Report explains, this challenge has three parts: to provide the massive amount of extra energy needed to fuel development and reduce poverty; to keep supplies secure from disruption; and to do this in socially and environmentally  responsible ways. Helping meet this challenge, while continuing to provide competitive ?nancial returns, is at the heart of the commitment we made in 1997 to contribute to sustainable development.

Delivery and growth were our priorities for 2006. We delivered strong ?nancial and operational performance, earning more than $26 billion and adding approximately two billion barrels to our proven oil, gas and mining reserves. Most of these pro?ts are being re-invested in our business. They are being used to develop new projects to meet future energy needs, to improve safety and environmental performance at our facilities, and to develop new energy technologies. For example, we increased our spending on research and development by 50% last year.

Last year showed, once again, how important good environmental and social performance is to our business success. Good performance has to start with personal and process safety. Without a strong safety culture, all other aspects of our culture will erode.

Addressing concerns about climate change is also a critical task. I have said repeatedly that, for us, the debate about CO2¡¯s impact on the climate is over. I am pleased at how our people are responding to my call to ?nd ways to mitigate CO2  impacts from fossil fuels. Our focus is on what we can do to reduce CO2 emissions. We are determined to ?nd better, lower-cost ways to capture and store CO2.

In 2006, wide-ranging efforts to address local concerns and rebuild trust meant we could restart construction at our gas project in Ireland (page 26). In Russia, a protocol to partner with Gazprom helped clear the way for the Sakhalin II project to complete construction and for the joint venture to meet its environmental and social commitments (page 34). In Nigeria, we shut down approximately half our production in the Delta region because of the security situation that made it impossible for us to protect our staff and contractors there (page 32).

We further standardised our approach to managing environmental and social impacts, and did more to learn from our successes and failures. For example, we introduced our ?rst global Code of Conduct (page 21), and increased our focus on sustainable development at the earliest stages of new upstream projects. Our Project Academy, established in 2005 to strengthen the skills of our Project Managers, is making good progress. All our major facilities with communities nearby are using standardised social performance plans.

This year¡¯s Sustainability  Report includes a strong call for governments to act. That is because, as I discuss in an interview on page 4, leading companies and environmentally conscious consumers cannot meet the energy challenge on their own. Governments must set the framework to encourage the massive investments needed in new energy projects, in cleaner technologies and in conservation.

This Report has bene?ted signi?cantly from the scrutiny and advice of our independent External Review Committee (pages 38?39). As in any dialogue, there will not always be agreement on all points, but the signi?cant changes we have made as a result of their feedback have strengthened our reporting.

I hope this Report, and the additional information on our website, helps you judge for yourself how well we are acting on our commitment to meet the world¡¯s energy needs in environmentally and socially responsible ways.

Jeroen van der Veer
CHIEF EXECUTIVE

----------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Supplementary Information 
About Shell
WHO WE ARE AND WHAT  WE DO
We are a global group of energy and petrochemicals companies, operating in more than 130 countries and employing approximately 108,000 people.

Our business is divided into:

UPSTREAM
Our two upstream businesses, Exploration & Production and Gas & Power:
? Search for and produce oil and natural gas.
? Liquefy and transport natural gas.
? Market and trade natural gas and electricity.
? Convert natural gas to cleaner transport fuels and other products.
? Develop business opportunities for our proprietary coal gasi?cation technology.

DOWNSTREAM
Our two downstream businesses, Oil Products and Chemicals:
? Re?ne crude oil to produce a range of fuels, lubricants and chemical feedstocks.
? Trade and ship crude oil and re?ned products around the world.
? Supply and distribute petrol, diesel and other re?ned products through a network of storage facilities, pipelines and road tankers.
? Market petrol, diesel and other fuels and lubricants for domestic, industrial and transportation use.
? Blend, distribute and market transport biofuels.
? Produce and sell petrochemicals to global industrial customers.

RENEWABLES, HYDROGEN  AND  CO2
? Develops businesses based on renewable sources of energy, including wind and solar power.
? Develops business opportunities in hydrogen technology.
? Co-ordinates research into mitigating carbon dioxide (CO2) emissions, including CO2  capture and storage.

------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Shell 2007
Introduction from the chief executive

Welcome to The Shell Sustainability Report. It describes our efforts in 2007 to live up to our commitment to contribute to sustainable development.  For us that means helping meet the world¡¯s growing energy needs in economically, environmentally and socially responsible ways. This includes both running our operations responsibly today and helping to build a responsible energy system for tomorrow.

This focus on responsible energy is more important than ever. Our latest Strategic Energy Scenarios make clear ? and events in 2007 again con?rmed ? that the world faces increasingly di?cult energy choices. Demand for energy grew strongly, increasing pressure on supplies and prices. Energy-producing countries continued to assert greater control over resources, reinforcing fears in many energy-consuming countries about the security of their supplies. Concerns rose further about the threat of climate change.

Against this backdrop, it is clear that sustainable development is critical to everyone¡¯s future and to our business success. Tomorrow¡¯s projects will be even more di?cult, complex and capital-intensive. All will bring environmental and social challenges, with climate change foremost among them. Shell¡¯s ability to develop new technologies  and to manage these projects in ways that reduce impacts and deliver local bene?ts in the communities  where we work, will be vital to winning new business and delivering existing projects.

We are continuing from a position of strength. In 2007, we reported record income of $31.9 billion. We are reinvesting record amounts back into the business and strengthening our capacity to manage environmental and social impacts. Our safety performance ? always our ?rst priority ? improved, though it must get better still. We decided to quadruple our rate of investment in transport biofuels, particularly in those using more sustainable second-generation technologies. Work continued to meet our aim of having the capability to capture and store carbon dioxide (CO2) ? a promising  way to manage greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions.

We made good progress on our natural gas project in Corrib, Ireland and got approval for the expansion of the Motiva Port Arthur re?nery in the USA. Our work on community relations remains vital to the success of both projects. With the purchase of the minority shares in Shell
Canada we consolidated our position as a leader in the responsible development of oil sands ? an increasingly important energy resource.

We continued our push to provide products that help our customers improve their fuel e?ciency, demonstrating our determination to help consumers use less energy. Emissions of GHGs  from our facilities continued to fall.

In 2007, we also had our share of disappointments. The security situation in Nigeria remained di?cult. As a result, production  stayed shut in and our programme to eliminate gas ?aring from all our operations has been delayed. In Alaska, exploration  activities were also delayed. I hope we will see progress in both these activities in the coming year.

I would like to thank the members of the report¡¯s External Review Committee  for their valuable contribution.  Their strong and insightful comments on early drafts of this report challenged our thinking.
They encouraged us to be more open about our assumptions, and to explain why we are making the choices we are. This input was important  in shaping the ?nal text and helped us explain our e?orts to encourage governments to build the international policy framework needed for change.

I hope this report ? and the supporting materials that can be found on our website ? will help you judge for yourself how well we are living up to our commitment to contribute to sustainable development. I also hope it encourages you to re?ect on the part you play in the energy system and the changes all of us need to make to build a responsible energy future.

Jeroen van der Veer
CHIEF EXECUTIVE

------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Shell 2008

Welcome to the 2008 Shell Sustainability Report. It describes our efforts to contribute to sustainable development in what was, for all of us, an exceptionally turbulent year.

The financial crisis and the economic recession it triggered affected people around the world. The downturn is expected to bite deeper in 2009. Oil prices plunged by more than $100 from a record high of around $145 a barrel in July.

Our response has been to intensify our drive to reduce costs while continuing to improve our performance and invest in the big projects that will deliver more energy and growth. We have learned from past recessions how important it is to do all three. We must stay on course. Critical things like safety, which is always our first priority, energy efficiency and social performance need constant focus. We must also keep the long-term view. With rising greenhouse gas concentrations and more than 3 billion more energy users by 2050, the energy challenge is here to stay. The world will need much more and much cleaner energy in the decades to come, and supplies will struggle to keep up. Meeting that challenge will require steady investment in new production capacity and new technologies. Stopping and starting at each phase of the business cycle will not work.

In 2008, we invested a record $32 billion net of proceeds from divestments, and expect to maintain these levels in 2009. We pressed ahead steadily with our major growth projects. They will help meet energy needs for many years to come. For example, Sakhalin II began commissioning year-round oil production and was preparing to start exports of liquefied natural gas (LNG) in 2009. Construction moved ahead on the Pearl GTL project in Qatar, on the expansion of the Motiva Port Arthur Refinery in the USA, on the Shell Eastern Petrochemicals Complex in Singapore, and on the expansion of the Athabasca Oil Sands Project in Canada. Progress on these projects has depended on mitigating environmental impacts and earning the trust of local communities.

The same is true in Nigeria, where conditions remained difficult. Security and funding problems meant we were unable to make significant further progress on our programme to end continuous flaring onshore in the Niger Delta. Despite the difficulties we did manage to start up the AFAM VI power plant. It will increase the country¡¯s electricity supply by a fifth.

Our focus on managing CO2 emissions remained strong. We continued to reduce the greenhouse gas emissions from the facilities we control or operate. These emissions have fallen by more than 30% since 1990, largely because of operational improvements like reduced flaring. We are involved in a number of demonstration projects for technology to capture and store CO2 safely underground, including the first research pilot in Europe to inject CO2 onshore. We would like these projects to move ahead faster and are working with governments to help them put the policies and incentives in place to speed up the development of this critical technology. We also continued to roll out advanced lubricants and transport fuels, like Shell Fuel Economy (and in 2009 Shell FuelSave), that can help drivers improve their fuel efficiency.

While our primary focus continues to be delivering oil and natural gas responsibly, we also made progress developing renewable energy. Wind is currently our largest business in this area. In 2008, we increased our wind capacity by nearly a quarter to 550MW, enough to power nearly 250,000 households. We will now concentrate on continuing to operate our existing wind farms reliably and safely, rather than expanding our portfolio further. For the next few years, we will
be stepping up our efforts in sustainably sourced transport biofuels with good CO2 performance. This will be the area of focus for our renewable energy activities. In 2008, we continued rolling out our sustainable sourcing safeguards with our biofuel suppliers and increased our stake in advanced biofuels company Iogen Energy to 50%.

I would like to thank the members of the Report¡¯s External Review Committee for their valuable contributions. Their straightforward and insightful comments on early drafts of the Report again this year forced us to think more critically about the choices we make and how to report on them effectively to our stakeholders.

In mid-2009, after some five years as Chief Executive, I shall hand over to Peter Voser, currently our Chief Financial Officer. I wish Peter every success. I would also like to thank our people for the tremendous effort, dedication and passion they have shown. I am proud of the way they are embracing the sustainable development mindset and am convinced this will serve Shell well in the challenging times ahead.

Jeroen van der Veer 
CHIEF EXECUTIVE

----------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Supplementary Information 
¡°WE MUST STAY ON  COURSE. CRITICAL THINGS LIkE SAFETY¡¦ ENERGY EFFICIENCY AND  SOCIAL PERFORMANCE NEED CONSTANT FOCUS. AND WE MUST KEEP THE LONG-TERM VIEW.  THE ENERGY CHALLENGE IS HERE TO STAY.¡±

------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Shell 2009
Introduction from the CEO

I am honoured to introduce the Shell Sustainability Report for 2009. it was a landmark year for the world with the un climate change conference taking place in copenhagen. my view is that the outcome offered a good starting point for greater action. but i will come to that later.

The business challenges we face are clear in our reduced earnings for the year. there were many positive achievements, however, reflecting our drive and determination to meet energy demand through technology and innovation applied in the right way: with respect for communities and the environment. development of new fields and increased production at existing projects helped offset the decline of our older fields. The reliability of our refineries improved. crucially in these tough economic conditions, we reduced underlying costs by more than $2 billion in 2009 and identified further savings of $1 billion in 2010. our safety record in 2009 was our best to date ? i expect everyone who works for Shell, employee and contractor alike, to keep building on this excellent progress.

Our greenhouse gas emissions fell further. this was mainly due to reduced activity in our refineries and chemical plants as well as forced production shutdowns in nigeria. but our investments and improvements in energy efficiency in many of our operations also played a role. We have programmes in place to step up these improvements.

Securing Energy
In 2009, our delivery of major projects remained on course. we started production from the deep-water parque das conchas oil field off brazil, and our perdido development in the gulf of mexico moved towards first production in early 2010. Sakhalin ii started production of liquefied natural gas (lng) in Russia¡¯s far east. In Qatar, our pearl gas-to-liquids and Qatargas 4 lng projects will complete major construction around the end of 2010. In downstream, we started up the first of several new advanced processing units at the Shell eastern petrochemicals complex in Singapore.

We agreed a contract to develop iraq¡¯s majnoon field as operators. iraq poses many challenges, including safety and the possible social impact of helping to develop the country¡¯s resources. We will draw on our experience of operating in other difficult environments to tackle these challenges.

Our operations and projects in Nigeria moved forward, with afam vi contributing substantially to the country¡¯s electricity supply and the okoloma plant increasing gas supplies. the gbaran-ubie oil and gas project is on track to start production in the next 12 months. we agreed to sell our interest in several leases in the niger delta to nigerian companies, subject to government approval. I believe this will provide an opportunity to further develop local skills. the security situation, however, meant that the operating environment in Nigeria continued to be difficult.

Our oil sands expansion project in Canada made good progress. It will use new technology that will save energy ? reducing carbon dioxide (CO2) emissions ? and water.

Time to Act
Climate change remains a huge global challenge, of course. For the first time, the countries that emit the most CO2 recognized in Copenhagen the need to work towards a new, low-carbon energy future. Shell will continue to work with governments to help develop the regulatory frameworks we believe are vital to establish a price for CO2 that allows companies to invest in energy efficiency, new low-CO2 products and carbon capture and storage (ccS). but while we work towards that aim, we must also focus sharply on what we can deliver now.

Our production of cleaner-burning and cost-effective natural gas has been rising for many years and will be over half our total energy output by around 2012. Natural gas can be both a bridge to a low-carbon energy future and a central part of the future energy mix. a modern gas-fired power plant emits half the CO2 of a modern coal plant when generating the same amount of electricity ? and it costs less than half to build. In ccS, we are involved in a number of projects to develop this essential technology. We are also helping our customers use less energy by developing more advanced fuels and lubricants. Low-carbon biofuels offer one of the best and more immediate commercial options to reduce CO2 from transport fuels. In 2009 we signed a non-binding memorandum of understanding with cosan to form a joint venture in brazil for ethanol production from sugar cane, the biofuel that currently produces the least CO2. We are also investing to develop more advanced biofuels for the future.

Challenge ahead
I would like to thank the members of the external Review committee for their valuable contribution to this year¡¯s Shell Sustainability Report. Once again, they provided critical comments on early drafts which urged us to think harder about our performance in sustainable development and how we report on our progress. We know there is still room for improvement. We take to heart all the lessons we learn and will apply them as we move forward.

I believe sustainable development works best when it is thoroughly integrated in our business decisions at the very earliest opportunity. Under the reorganization of Shell that began when I became CEO in July 2009, we embedded sustainable development firmly in our businesses. This means that safety, environmental and social performance are now closer to the core of our business plans and decisions.

That is exactly how it must be if we are to meet the complex challenges ahead in the most effective and responsible way.

Peter Voser
Chief Executive Officer

------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Shell 2010

Introduction from the CEO

Welcome to the Shell Sustainability Report for 2010. In this report we show how consideration for safety, the environment and communities lies at the core of our operations and the development of our future energy projects.

The event that dominated the year for our industry showed the critical importance of getting our approach to safety right. The BP Deepwater Horizon incident in the Gulf of Mexico and the oil spill that followed will have repercussions for many years to come.

The incident became an environmental disaster that affected communities, but it began as a tragic accident: 11 people died, and others were seriously injured. Safety has always been the first priority at Shell. A major incident like this serves as a warning to all to guard against complacency.

It will take time for our industry to recover credibility. But I believe Shell¡¯s technical expertise, safety culture and rigorous global standards demonstrate that we are capable of operating responsibly, however challenging the conditions.

S E C U R I N G C L E A N E R , D I V E R S E  E N E R GY 
With the world now out of recession, energy demand is again increasing. All energy sources will be needed to meet this demand, but in the decades ahead the bulk of the world¡¯s energy is expected to continue to come from fossil fuels. Producing oil and gas from deep waters will remain crucial.
These resources are a vital part of the secure and diverse supplies of energy the world will need, as are energy resources from other technically challenging environments. Shell¡¯s responsible approach and continued investment in technology and innovation will help us to deliver this energy.

As an energy company we must meet our customers¡¯ needs, and our ability to work with joint-venture partners helps us to do this. In 2010 a number of our major projects came on-stream or continued to perform well. Others approached completion for start-up in 2011. We continued to raise our production of natural gas ? by far the cleanest-burning fossil fuel ? that will account for over half our energy output in 2012. We believe natural gas will play an essential role in managing the carbon dioxide (CO2) emissions caused by the world¡¯s rising energy demand.

Tackling climate change remains urgent and requires action by governments, industry and consumers. The UN climate change conference in Cancun, Mexico, produced a more encouraging outcome than expected. But with so many countries involved, the process of addressing climate change through international agreements is inevitably slow.

At Shell we believe that in making our contribution, there is no time to waste. We are working on what we can do today to contribute to a sustainable energy future: producing more natural gas for power generation; focusing on sustainable biofuels; helping to develop carbon capture and storage technology; and making our own operations more energy efficient. Our advanced fuels and lubricants are helping our customers save energy.

S U STA I N A B L E  P R I N C I P L E S
Delivering energy involves meeting other complex sustainability challenges. Strong principles and building trust underpin our approach. Respect for human rights, for example, is embedded in the Shell General Business Principles. Shell contributed to the work of Professor John Ruggie, the UN special representative for business and human rights, whose guiding principles were published in early 2011. The grievance mechanism at the Sakhalin 2 liquefied natural gas project in Russia formed part of Professor Ruggie's pilot work on grievance procedures. We plan to introduce similar approaches for communities near other major projects and facilities in the coming years.

In Nigeria, Shell Petroleum Development Company (SPDC) took a significant step forward in transparency for our industry. SPDC has set up a publicly accessible website to report on oil spills from the facilities it operates. This allows the tracking of the response to every spill, whether it is operational or the result of sabotage or theft.

I am proud to have signed up to the UN Global Compact LEAD, an initiative which reinforces the commitment of business to the principles of the Global Compact. Shell was a founding member of the Global Compact in 2000 and we support its principles in human rights, labour, environment and anti- corruption. The Sustainability Report 2010 reports on our progress in these areas.

I would like to thank the members of the External Review Committee for their important contributions in producing the Sustainability Report 2010. Once more their valuable insights have helped shape this report.

Finally, I invite you to send your comments on the report to:
sustainabilityreport@shell.com

Peter Voser
Chief Executive Officer

----------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Supplementary Information 

¡°AT SHELL WE BELIEVE THAT IN MAKING OUR CONTRIBUTION, THERE IS NO TIME TO WASTE. WE ARE WORKING ON WHAT WE CAN DO TODAY TO CONTRIBUTE TO A SUSTAINABLE ENERGY FUTURE.¡±


