---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Diageo 2004

Investing in sustainability

This second Diageo corporate citizenship report, which has been prepared for everyone with a stake or interest in our business, has a number of key aims. First, it shows how we have invested resources in ensuring that our business continues to prosper sustainably and responsibly within society and the environment. Secondly, it affirms our commitment to corporate citizenship leadership in our industry and gives examples of the actions we have taken in supporting this position. And thirdly it sets out the importance we place on the involvement of stakeholders in our business ? indeed the report itself is a contribution to our engagement with stakeholders and to the public debate on the whole area of corporate responsibility.

Being a good corporate citizen is an ambition enthusiastically embraced at all levels within Diageo. Our board fully supports our actions in working towards sustainability goals ? in particular those contained in the UN Global Compact ? and endorses the future priorities and specific targets we set out in our report last year. In this publication we have summarised the progress we have made against each of these priorities ? in blue ¡®future priority¡¯boxes throughout the report ? and we will continue to follow them up in future reports. For Diageo as a whole, we will report on our corporate citizenship commitments and performance annually.This will be supported by reports focusing on our businesses in important markets around the world, in which we can respond directly to local stakeholder concerns and set out our impacts at a country level.

The response to our first report, published last year, was very positive. Many who shared their views with us appreciated the comprehensive scope of the document and the example it set in our industry by openly discussing the dilemmas we face. For us, the feedback we received was one of the main benefits of publishing the report. It is part of the active conversation with our stakeholders which allows the important issues to be aired, our impacts to be openly reported and the thinking behind our actions to be clearly understood.The work we have been doing to promote and extend this dialogue is described on page 6 of this report.

We have prepared this report in accordance with the 2002 Guidelines of the Global Reporting Initiative and believe it represents a balanced and reasonable presentation of Diageo¡¯s social, environmental and economic performance.We hope it shows progress against our objectives and urge you to share with us your views on our report and on the issues it raises.

Lord Blyth of Rowington
Chairman

Paul S Walsh
Chief executive
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Diageo 2005

KNOWING WHAT¡¯S IMPORTANT

Ask anyone in Diageo and they will tell you that being a good corporate citizen is vital to the long-term success of our business. Its inclusion as an element in all our major business initiatives has the support of the whole organisation. It is enshrined in our own Diageo values and reinforced through our continuing commitment to the ten principles of the UN Global Compact. That commitment identifies Diageo as a company willing to be judged against international standards for its performance as a corporate citizen.

For Diageo, corporate citizenship means acting responsibly in everything we do ? where our business impacts on society and the environment, how we govern our company and conduct
ourselves in business. As with individual citizenship, we believe such responsibility confers rights ? to trade freely and be treated fairly. Clearly, this balance is essential to the sustainability of our business.

During  the year Diageo  was assessed as one of the world¡¯s 100 most sustainable corporations (www.global100.org). These were defined as those ¡®that produce an overall positive impact on society and the environment¡¯ and that stand the best chance of being around in 100 years because of their demonstrated performance and strategic ability to manage  social, economic and environmental issues. We appreciate the recognition from this and other independent surveys, but we do not feel our task is anything  like complete. Although  we have made good progress during the year and list opposite the main highlights from across our business, we still have a lot to do.

We are often asked what the main citizenship  issues are that face Diageo and how we know our stakeholders share our priorities. We put a lot of effort into talking and listening to people with an interest in our business ? our stakeholders. This process is explained  in more detail in this report. It is vital for us. It confirms what¡¯s important and helps us concentrate our efforts where we can do the most good. Many of the big issues are similar to those facing any large consumer products business ? for example, providing fulfilling employment, supporting our communities and managing our environmental impacts. Our efforts in these areas are all covered  in this report.

But one topic dominates ? you only have to follow the news to know that the issue most important to the future of our business is the role of alcohol in society. We are certain that alcohol beverages have a sustainable future, but we know that it is inappropriate consumption which most attracts criticism of our industry. Diageo alone cannot put a stop to irresponsible drinking, but we are committed to join others and lead the industry in finding ways of addressing inappropriate consumption and promoting  responsible drinking.

Community actions are another strong theme of this report. Our history of partnership with Tomorrow¡¯s People, the daring interventions of teams under the Spirit of the Americas programme  and the response of Diageo colleagues from across the world to the South-East Asian tsunami disaster are all testament to the meaning we place on the idea of responsibility. They are also evidence that our people really do know and care about what¡¯s important.

This third report has been prepared in accordance with the 2002 Guidelines of the Global Reporting Initiative and we believe it represents a balanced and reasonable presentation  of Diageo¡¯s social, environmental and economic performance. We have prepared the report for the widest stakeholder readership possible, attempting to address all the material issues which  interest and concern  them. We welcome your views on our coverage of your concerns, our priorities and our performance.

Lord Blyth of Rowington            Paul S Walsh
Chairman                                   Chief executive

---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Diageo 2006

VALUE VERSUS VALUES?

At Diageo, we don¡¯t measure success solely in terms of financial return. We take a holistic view of our company¡¯s performance, including our progress against social and environmental  policy commitments. We don¡¯t believe we have to choose between financial success and being  a good  corporate citizen. Creating value and living our values are both essential requirements for the continuing prosperity of Diageo and its development as a truly sustainable business.

Our focus on quality, innovation, seeking out the best talent, driving down costs and beating the competition is behind our achievement of financial success. Equally, we take steps to address the pressing social, environmental and economic issues we face in the communities in which we trade.

Our approach has attracted much independent recognition this year. Diageo earned seventh place among the world¡¯s most admired  UK companies, as published by Fortune magazine, and was rated fourth of the world¡¯s most admired  UK innovators. For the second year, we were included as one of the world¡¯s 100 most sustainable corporations? those judged to have the best-developed ability to manage the environmental, social and governance risks and opportunities they face. And in a survey published in Management Today, Diageo headed the list of Britain¡¯s most admired consumer products companies and was ranked seventh overall. We were also judged to be at the top of the quality of goods and services category.

A key factor in our continued commercial success is the strength of our brands. In a recent study of 10,000 spirits and wine brands, Smirnoff, Johnnie Walker and Baileys were judged among the ten most powerful in the world for their ability to generate value. The study, conducted by Intangible Business, named Diageo as the world¡¯s number one brand owner overall.

Financial results are readily quantified and ours can be examined in our published accounts. Measuring progress in social responsibility is a less developed science, but one in which we have made advances. This year we have updated our table of priorities, refined our range of performance indicators and further developed our methods of data collection. As a result, we hope this report will provide all our stakeholders with a clear and complete picture of Diageo¡¯s performance  as a corporate citizen. As in previous years, we have prepared the report in accordance with the 2002 Guidelines of the Global Reporting Initiative and believe it represents a balanced and reasonable presentation  of Diageo¡¯s social, environmental and economic performance.

We were the first alcohol beverage company to sign the UN Global Compact and have a continuing commitment to the compact¡¯s ten principles. In our UNGC communication on progress on page 35, we give examples of actions we have taken to support that commitment. This year we contributed to the establishment of a new Foundation for the Global Compact to help further its aims.

This report contains many examples of how we bring our values to life ? for example, through our employees volunteering time in their communities, and through choosing to do the right thing in our work even when it means going beyond what is required by legislation.
A clear message to emerge from these examples is just how far we have come since we began reporting our progress in corporate citizenship four years ago. Our major policies are now embedded in the way we do business day to day. For example, responsible marketing practice is integral to promoting our brands; human rights standards are a regular part of our procurement process; and diversity is an essential theme of employee policy. In summary, our values are brought to bear throughout our value-creating processes.

We welcome your views on our report and its coverage of your concerns, our priorities and our development and performance as a sustainable business.

Paul S Walsh                                 Lord Blyth of Rowington
Chief executive                               Chairman
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Diageo 2007

A decade to celebrate

After Diageo¡¯s formation, we quickly established the structures our young company needed to develop not just as a business dedicated to delivering returns for shareholders, but as an industry-leading corporate citizen with an holistic approach to the long-term aims of sustainability. Within the first six months, we agreed our set of company values and adopted a code of business conduct, responsible marketing code and employee alcohol policy. The environmental working group was set up, the Diageo Foundation created and 1% of operating profit committed to community investment. Further achievements quickly followed.

When we address the range of sustainability issues, our aim is to achieve the continuing success of our business within healthy, prosperous communities and a stable environment. Our first priority, which developed strongly over the last decade, remains to ensure a sustainable place in society for alcohol beverages by taking strong and effective action to reduce the harm that occurs when alcohol is misused. The largest section of this report is rightly devoted to the work we have done to build on our notable track record on this central issue.

The other aspects of our corporate citizenship agenda are also vital to our continuing success. In this, our tenth anniversary year, we have advanced strongly in two such areas.

First, we have directed attention to community involvement. Diageo has long been celebrated for supporting  projects that tackle social issues within our communities. This year our International division made its community programme a central part of business strategy. And within this region, Africa has been a particular focus. There, we have set ourselves the goal of providing access to clean water for one million people.

Second, the environment, too, has moved higher on the corporate citizenship agenda. Increasingly concerned about new estimates of the speed and gravity of human impacts on the climate, during the year we reconstituted our environmental  working group to formulate an effective response to the threats and opportunities presented by this issue.
In our programme to invest ?100 million in new and expanded distilling capacity in Scotland, announced this year, we hope to incorporate environmental features to significantly reduce our impacts there.

Where we can, we work to support external initiatives which share or extend our aims. Our One Million Challenge and HIV/Aids programmes in Africa are a significant contribution  to achieving the UN¡¯s Millennium Development Goals. In July, we signed a high-level business declaration that calls on companies to use their resources to help achieve the Goals.

Our approach has earned much recognition. In an assessment of the 120 largest companies in Europe, Diageo was placed in the top ten of the Good Company Ranking 2007 which selects businesses whose employee policies and forward- looking approaches to environmental and social issues have had a positive effect on their governance and profitability.

As befits the start of our second decade, we are continually looking to set stretching objectives for our employees in the areas of performance, innovation, relationships, reputation, our role in society, our people, culture and values. A revised Diageo leadership standard is already being applied to equip our managers for their role in leading our business through the challenges of achieving our ambitious plans.

We can report progress this year on each of our priority areas and against the ten principles of the UN Global Compact. Our continuing commitment to these principles ensures that we advance on all aspects of sustainability for the continuing benefit of everyone with a stake in our business. We hope this report, which for the first time we have prepared by applying the new G3 guidelines of the Global Reporting Initiative, will provide all such stakeholders with a compelling  picture of Diageo  as a good corporate citizen.

We welcome your views on our report and its coverage of your concerns, our priorities and our development as a sustainable business.

Lord Blyth of Rowington      Paul S Walsh
Chairman                             Chief executive

----------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Supplementary Information 

We see our tenth anniversary as a time for looking forward, drawing on our decade of achievement as one business to provide the context for tackling the challenges ahead.

---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Diageo 2008

GOOD BUSINESS

It is a truism, but one worth repeating, that a business cannot survive in isolation. That it needs employees, customers and suppliers has always been obvious. What has happened in more recent years is that businesses have realised that there are other occupants of their world ? their broader stakeholders. And it is also dawning  on humanity generally that the earth itself is more finely balanced and prone to damage and that the resources on which we all depend are more fragile than we thought.
This dependency on our stakeholders, communities and environment means we have a strong interest in their future. We benefit from working with our stakeholders, from the prosperity of our communities and from the stability of the environment. Contributing to these ends is an investment in our own continuing success and the sustainability of our business.

The most powerful  way for a business to do good is to do good business. Conducting our operations responsibly and with integrity, our activities around the world bring pleasure to consumers and opportunities to employees and business partners. A good example of how growing our own business leads directly to development in our communities is given on page 29 of this report. There, we review our encouragement of grain cultivation locally in Africa, the most recent example of which, in Cameroon, was showcased by the UK government  this year as part of its Business Call to Action.

Knowing that we cannot change the world on our own, we aim to lead by example ? for instance, through our continuing support for the principles of the UN Global Compact detailed on page 35, the huge ambition of our Water of Life One Million Challenge described on page 14 and the big improvements we have made and plan to make in relation to the environment (starting on page 21). There are times too when it is appropriate  to lead by exhortation and this year we endorsed the World Economic Forum¡¯s challenge to business to help strengthen public governance (see page 27), the Bali Communique on climate change (page 21) and the CEO Water Mandate
(page 4).

This approach of setting a good example and encouraging others is of particular importance in
the area of responsible drinking, the issue that impacts most directly on the sustainability of our business.
As in previous reports, the section covering this topic abounds with examples of our responsible marketing activities and our efforts to reduce harm by encouraging consumers and others to adopt responsible attitudes to alcohol.

We hope these examples show that, for us, responsibility isn¡¯t merely a bolt-on function, but an attitude which we bring to the way we do business. It¡¯s what helps define our business because it¡¯s what ensures our sustainable future.

We intend this report, which we have prepared by applying the G3 guidelines of the Global Reporting Initiative, to paint a compelling picture of Diageo  as a good corporate citizen. We welcome your views on the report and its coverage of your concerns, our priorities and our development as a sustainable  business.

Dr Franz B Humer                  Paul S Walsh
Chairman                              Chief executive
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Supplementary Information 
An astute modern business doesn¡¯t treat responsible behaviour as a tick-box process or a marketing exercise; rather it is a driver of long-term growth  and  an essential component of a company¡¯s all-round  success.

¡®The most powerful way for a business to do good is to do good business.¡¯
PAUL WALSH, CHIEF EXECUTIVE

¡®We benefit from working with our stakeholders, from the prosperity of our communities and from the stability of the environment.¡¯
DR FRANZ HUMER, CHAIRMAN

---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Diageo 2009
Committed to our values

When we are faced with a challenging business climate, this is not the time for panic measures. Rather, it is an opportunity to reaffirm our commitment to our values. These fundamental principles guide us in setting policy, our ways of working and our dealings with others ? in good times and in bad.

The sustainability of a business is rightly a matter of concern to its stakeholders. Employees put a high price on job satisfaction, investors look for dependable returns, while communities and governments value a stable and supportive business presence in their economies. Such stakeholders often ask whether the work we do in support of sustainability ? for example, encouraging responsible drinking, making environmental improvements or supporting our communities ? will be cut back in times of financial uncertainty.
The answer is that all business decisions ? including those that involve investing in these areas ? must be made in the light of available resources, and these are inevitably more stretched when economic growth falters. Nevertheless, such pressures will not deafen us to stakeholders¡¯ concerns, compromise our values, divert us from our policies or commitments or undermine our principles of responsible business. At the core of this report is an account of these values and the actions we have taken, and continue to take, to support the sustainability of our business through whatever economic conditions we encounter.
We know that we cannot change the world on our own. Through our participation and continuing support for the UN Global Compact and its CEO Water Mandate, we can both learn from others and show leadership ? for example, through the huge ambition of our Learning for Life programme and 1 Million Challenge described on pages 11?12 and the big strides we have made and plan to make in relation to the environment (starting on page 18).
We know the power of acting with others. Our community investment and responsible drinking programmes benefit hugely from the expertise that NGO, industry, government and other partners can bring. And this year we endorsed a number of business declarations that called on world leaders to take action. These included one to mark the 60th anniversary of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights and two on climate change ? the Poznan Communiqu? and Caring for Climate.
That challenging times are an opportunity to reaffirm a commitment to fundamental values is as true for governments as it is for companies. We recently joined with others to urge the leaders of the G20 nations, meeting in London in April 2009, to renounce protectionist measures and instead to stimulate world trade which, for six decades, has done so much to reduce poverty and create the conditions in which the Millennium Development Goals might be achieved.
In total, we hope this report paints a compelling picture of Diageo as a good corporate citizen. We welcome your views on the way we¡¯ve reported the issues that interest or concern you, and on our development as a sustainable business.

Dr Franz B Humer, Chairman

Paul S Walsh, Chief executive

----------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Supplementary Information 

Our values
We are passionate about consumers 
Our curiosity and consumer insights drive our growth. We cherish our brands; we are creative and courageous in pursuing their full potential. We are innovative, constantly searching for new ideas.

We value each other
We seek and benefit from diverse people and perspectives. We strive to create mutually fulfilling relationships and partnerships.

We give ourselves the freedom to succeed 
We trust each other, we are open and seek challenge, and we respond quickly to the opportunities this creates.

We are proud of what we do and how we do it 
We act responsibly with the highest standards of integrity.

We strive to be the best 
We are always learning, always improving. We set high standards, we stretch to exceed them and we celebrate success.

¡®We know the power of working with others¡¯

---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Diageo 2010
CEO msg ¾øÀ½

---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Diageo 2011
Chief executive¡¯s introduction

This has been a year of progress for Diageo. Our business is strong and becoming stronger. We are on track with the majority of our sustainability and responsibility targets. We also instituted a significant reorganisation of the business and our new configuration reflects our strategic focus on high-growth opportunities in traditional and emerging markets.

Supporting our commercial strategy
Creating value for shareholders must be a principal concern of any business. At Diageo, we also recognise that our business must be sustainable in every sense ? an important pre-condition for our commercial success. This year¡¯s financial results illustrate performance that is both successful and enduring. For the tenth consecutive year we grew our organic top and bottom lines. Our net sales were over ?9.9 billion, and we had an operating profit of ?2.6 billion. We continued to deliver operating margin improvement.

Sustainability performance: a driver of growth
This performance demonstrates an inherent strength in our business and a sustainable model for value creation, and I am sure that our focus on our social and environmental impacts gives us a competitive edge.
Diageo does not operate in a vacuum. To succeed we require the goodwill of many stakeholders, from investors and employees, to governments and our communities.
We have pursued this approach in good times but also in more challenging circumstances. We aim to manage our business with an eye to the long as well as to the short term. That means, for instance, being prepared to continue to make bold investments which will create a longer-term return.

Long-term investment in water and the environment 
Our decision to build a state-of-the-art bioenergy plant at our Cameronbridge distillery in Scotland is an illustration of this point. I am proud that we invested significant capital in efficient, new, green technologies for a long-term environmental gain that aims to remove virtually all effluent discharge from the site, recycle almost a third of its water and, crucially, supply 85% of its power from an on-site renewable source.
We make such investments to preserve the resources that our company, and the communities in which we operate, rely on. As a beverage company, this is particularly true for water. We have set challenging operational targets to reduce water wasted in water-stressed regions and complement this work with programmes such as ¡®Water of Life¡¯ that has brought clean water to millions of people since it launched in 2006. I am particularly proud of the contribution of our employees to these programmes.

Our role as a global beverage alcohol company
As a responsible company, we want to ensure that drinking alcohol continues to play a positive role in society ? core to Diageo¡¯s purpose to celebrate life every day, everywhere. We recognise that different cultures and religions have a range of views about alcohol¡¯s role. This dictates that we work in partnership with stakeholders in our communities to tackle alcohol misuse.
We also contribute to the economic development of these communities, for example through our Learning for Life programme which, since 2008, has helped over 50,000 people gain valuable skills and find jobs.

Sustainability in a changing market
In the years to come there will be a shift in the balance of economic power from the developed world ? principally North America and Western Europe ? to the emerging markets of Africa, Latin America, Asia and those in Eastern Europe. Growth in these regions in the next decade is likely to outstrip that in our traditional markets, and very soon
I expect them to represent at least half of our business.

This shift will benefit Diageo and our stakeholders over the long term, and in May 2011 we announced a reorganisation to position ourselves to take advantage of this opportunity. In the immediate future the changes we have made will have difficult consequences for a number of our people, particularly in Western Europe and North America. We will support our employees through this change. Above all our aim is to ensure that stakeholders old and new will always value doing business with Diageo.

Paul Walsh
Chief executive

Read more: go to www.diageoreports.com/sr/ceo-statement/

---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Diageo 2012

Chief executive¡¯s introduction

That commitment is important for many reasons. It is closely aligned to our company values and it creates long term value for the business.
It helps build our reputation with stakeholders and protects our licence to operate. It delivers business efficiencies and security of supply.
It helps us engage suppliers, customers, consumers and employees. Very significantly, it drives competitive advantage with key stakeholders in the emerging markets which are increasingly important for our business.
Our purpose is ¡®celebrating life, every day, everywhere¡¯. We are proud that our brands are a part of celebrations around the world, but our purpose goes broader.
It is underpinned by respect for all those our business touches.
Much of my time is spent in our businesses in market. I have the chance to see first-hand the beneficial impact our work has had on our stakeholders around the world. For example,
I have talked to small-scale farmers in Africa who are part of the network of tens of thousands that supply our business. I have seen first-hand how our partnerships ? which combine commercial contracts and financial support and training ? have improved livelihoods and secured the resources we need for our business to grow.
In Nottingham, England I saw the success of a programme that we support to create a responsible night- time economy. Today, the number of programmes that we support to tackle alcohol misuse totals more than 300 in 49 countries.
I¡¯ve visited many of our operations where we drive our environmental targets ? which are among the most challenging in the consumer goods sector. This year we recorded progress on all our operational targets. In particular, our work to reduce greenhouse gas emissions by nearly
10% while increasing production year on year is a significant achievement.
Other highlights include our Water of Life programme in Africa, where we aim to bring water to eight million people by 2015; our Learning for Life programme in Latin America, 
where we have trained more than
63,000 people to enter the job market; and the Diageo Bar Academy in Asia Pacific, where we have trained almost 20,000 bartenders how to serve alcohol responsibly.
Of course, we have also had some disappointments. For example, while we have made progress in promoting  a Zero Harm culture, I am saddened
to report that one of our employees died following a road traffic accident in Nigeria. One death is one too many. Our sympathies go to his family and our efforts to stop any recurrence are redoubled. We will place even more emphasis on preventing accidents in the workplace: our people¡¯s safety is our number one priority.
As our business grows, making a positive contribution to local communities demands a clear understanding of the differing needs of each of those communities.
This year we completed the reorganisation of our business, devolving operational decision- making and responsibility to 21 business units. We will now sharpen

our focus on a local approach to sustainability and responsibility. Our global strategy remains the same ? along with our commitments to important international frameworks such as the UN Global Compact and CEO Water Mandate. We are increasingly geared to ensure greater responsiveness and flexibility, prioritising those issues that are most important to our local businesses and their diverse stakeholders.
I am proud of what we have accomplished to build a responsible and sustainable company, though I recognise that there are many opportunities and challenges ahead of us. We will continue to drive these efforts and look for solutions that benefit both Diageo and the many communities in which we work and live around the world.



Paul S Walsh, Chief executive

---------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Supplementary Information 

Diageo is a strong business, growing stronger. In what remain most challenging economic conditions, I am proud that we have delivered excellent growth. We have built a business which is increasingly recognised for the strength of its brands, its growing focus on high-growth markets and its agility in managing resources.
As detailed throughout this report we are also known for our strong commitment to sustainability and responsibility.

 ¡°Driving strong performance in sustainability and responsibility is in the long term interests of our company. It helps ensure that we can both deliver returns to shareholders and benefit the communities whose lives we touch. It is my firm belief that the most genuinely strategic and forward-looking businesses treat sustainability as a core component of business delivery.¡± Paul S Walsh, Chief executive


----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Diageo PLC 2013

In my final introduction to our Sustainability & Responsibility Report, I am proud to point to many accomplishments that Diageo has achieved thanks to the tireless commitment of our people. As Diageo continues to grow and evolve, I am confident that my successor, Ivan Menezes, will build upon these successes and progress our work in support of creating long-term value.

For Diageo, earning the trust of all our stakeholders is central to our business strategy. At the heart of our success in driving consistent top line growth and margin expansion are people all over the world. From the farmers who grow the grains we use in our brands, and our own employees, to the customers who sell our products and the consumers who love them, we benefit from the partnerships we create. We also benefit from working in stable, growing economies. That means having relationships of mutual respect with governments, non-governmental organisations and community members who help ensure that we and other multinationals can contribute in a meaningful way. 

This year we were honoured to have been named Britain¡¯s Most Admired Company by UK business magazine, Management Today. We also received many other sustainability awards in different parts of the world. Together these recognise our people, who have worked hard to earn the trust of all those whom our business touches.

During my 13 years as chief executive of Diageo, ensuring that our company is a trusted and respected member of society has been very important to me, and I am certain that our approach to sustainability and responsibility has been essential in earning this trust and respect. This approach, aligned with our values, is also a core component of delivering our financial performance because it facilitates our licence to operate, secures our supply of raw materials, generates business efficiencies, and motivates our people.

Among the most basic and essential elements of running a sustainable company is a commitment to health and safety wherever we work. I was deeply saddened that, despite the efforts of many employees across the business to improve our safety culture, four people lost their lives at work this year. Safety must be our number one priority and fatalities at work are simply not acceptable. Our sympathies go to their families, and we are committed to redoubling our efforts to ensure that everyone goes home from work safe every day. 

Given the changes our business has been through over the last few years, this year we refreshed our approach to sustainability and responsibility. We interviewed more than 40 stakeholders to understand their social and environmental concerns for our business and industry, taking stock of our changing geographical footprint and any new implications for our Sustainability & Responsibility Strategy. 

We were reassured that our stakeholders believe that our programmes are going in the right direction. Our research confirmed the belief that we can and should play an important role in communicating about alcohol responsibly and tackling alcohol misuse. I believe industry collaboration is an important element in this work, which is why, on behalf of Diageo, I signed the CEO Commitments to reduce harmful drinking. 

Water stewardship, particularly in communities where access to clean water is limited, was also identified as an important responsibility of our company, our agricultural suppliers and others in the industry.

This is another key element of our strategy, and I am delighted to see developments in water efficiency at many of our sites in addition to a 21% reduction in water wasted at water-tressed sites since 2007. I am also encouraged by innovations such as the new, less water-ntensive, cassava-based beer that we launched in Ghana. 

Skills and empowerment ? particularly for smallholder farmers and women in our value chain ? were other elements that stakeholders prioritised as important for us to address. Empowering people through skills development has been at the heart of our community investment strategy since 2006, when we launched our Learning for Life programme in Latin America. This programme has helped more than 88,000 people progress or launch their careers, and after talking with students this year in Miami, it was moving to see the impact that Learning for Life continues to have years later. 

We have much to be proud of this year in building a sustainable and responsible, as well as a profitable, business. I know Ivan shares my commitment to serving our stakeholders, and I believe Diageo is well placed to address the challenges and opportunities that lie ahead as it continues to grow around the world.
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ Danone 2004

An interview with Frank RIBOUD, chairman and CEO, Group Danone 

You¡¯ve talked about globalization and being ¡°close to home around the world.¡± Could you tell us more?
Franck Riboud > We are a world leader in each of our businesses. But DANONE is first and foremost a local leader, close to local markets and local communities. Which is a key part of what we mean by proximity. Winning that place demands constant dedication?to product quality, of course, but also to meeting the nutritional needs of local people. And giving them the tastes they enjoy. Proximity is one of our core values and plays a defining role in our way of doing things?for example, in the way our managers are close to the people they work with. It also shows in the attention we pay to working conditions, our readiness to talk with unions and employee representatives, and in our care for the environment. To my mind, commitment to proximity is about creating value for all DANONE stakeholders in every single country we work in. Which is why we leave management teams at our various business units a very free hand within the framework of Group principles and rules. In this, the important thing is to combine local ties and presence with the capacities of DANONE as a major international business to innovate and develop broadly based networks.
That is central to our model for business success and social progress.

How does DANONE fit sustainable development into its business strategy?
F.R. > Our approach is rooted in our history, and our longstanding belief in a dual commitment to business success and social progress.
That commitment continues to have a profound influence on our reflexes and behavior as a business. And I am convinced that the culture it has helped to develop gives us an edge on the competition. To consolidate that advantage, we set up the DANONE Way program, in operation since 2001. DANONE Way gives our business units around the world a common framework to assess performance, and at the same time leaves them room to make the adjustments suited to their particular business environment and conditions in the country in which they operate.
Not that it is always simple?it is a matter of finding solutions that enable us to achieve the annual results promised to our shareholders and at the same time build a business that is truly sustainable. In any case, I am happy to see that sustainability is taking a growing place in our strategy, product design and the day-to-day operations of our staff.

What do you consider the most important achievements in 2004? F.R. > A main priority for the year was to structure policies more effectively in areas that are of special importance
for our corporate responsibility. A good example of this is the adoption of a Food, Nutrition and Health Charter spelling out our principles on product ingredients, health benefits and communications. Not that the ideas are really new for us, since they are drawn from our long experience in nutrition and related fields. But this is an important step in that it defines clear, simple rules that make full allowance for the progress of scientific knowledge and official public-health recommendations.
Another important initiative, concerning our staff this time, is the Evolution program to help all employees acquire new skills and qualifications. This has benefits of two kinds, since it will preserve the employability of participants and at the same time enable our organizations to adapt to change and stay competitive. I look forward to the results of the pilot projects launched in around fifteen countries in 2004, which look very promising indeed.
Finally, in an area upstream from our business operations properly speaking, in 2004 we adopted our Groundwater Resources Protection Policy. This provides a clear basis for long-term management of the springs supplying DANONE¡¯s water businesses.

Are there areas where you consider Group performance is clearly inadequate?
F.R. > Our results in the area of workplace safety show a worrying trend. We have always believed that safety and working conditions are the first responsibility of any business, and there must never be any letup in our attention to this. In 2004, our Biscuit division took an important first step to improve results with its WISE project. We will very soon be taking additional action to unite all our teams behind this necessary effort.

Today, 2.7 billion people around the world have to live on less than $2 a day. How can DANONE help to achieve the UN¡¯s Millennium Goals in the fight against poverty?
F.R. > By helping as many children and adults around the world as possible to get the balanced nutrition they need to live a full life. That is our challenge for the years ahead?a challenge in economic terms and in terms of social responsibility. We have already gained some useful experience in Indonesia, India, South Africa and China. But we need to go further and find new responses, new ways to develop products that are affordable for consumers with very low incomes and provide them with genuine nutritional benefits. To do that, we will have to take a completely new approach to understand needs and lifestyles, and to cut production and distribution costs while at the same time ensuring that margins are sufficient to make the business model viable over time. This will naturally mean working alongside organizations that have a longstanding presence in developing countries. Which is why I have set up a dedicated group to work with me on the project. We have called this program ¡°Dream¡±. Why? Because there can¡¯t be any dream more worthwhile than doing everything we can to help meet one of the greatest challenges of our era.

------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Supplementary Information 

¡®¡®Achieve the annual results promised to our shareholders and at the same time build a business that is truly sustainable.¡±

------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ Danone 2005

Questions to DANONE CEO Franck Riboud

In 2005, Groupe DANONE posted ex- cellent growth and earnings for the sixth year running. What is the secret of your success, and what about your performance  in the  areas  of  social and environmental responsibility? DANONE¡¯s successes are a matter of sound  business  fundamentals  and  a strategy  focused  on  reinforcement  of our  health  positioning,  expansion  on new  frontiers  and  worldwide  deploy- ment of our top brands. Above all, the vitality of our Group is the vitality of a culture?a culture of responsiveness, of adapting  to  local  conditions?that  is also  reflected  in  a  relatively  informal management style favoring innovation and networking. What I find particularly striking  about  the  results  of  our  in- house  surveys  is  the  extent  of  our teams¡¯ commitment to that very special culture.  And social and environmental responsibility are an integral part of it. The defining goal of our corporate mis- sion is to make healthy food available to the majority.  It¡¯s  up  to  each of  us to translate that goal into action, creating value  for  our  business  and  for  local communities.  That  is  what  underpins our  motivation  in  the  day-to-day  de- fense of our business project.

DANONE Way has attracted a good deal of  attention.  How would  you assess  the  results  now  that  the program has been in operation for four years?
DANONE Way is an extraordinary venture in  management,  giving  thousands  of people at all levels and in all parts of the business the opportunity to contribute to the assessment of performance in areas such as quality, business ethics,  man- agement  and  respect  for  the  environ- ment. This 360¡Æ vision has helped Group businesses all over the world to define targets  matching  both  local  conditions and the broader aims of the Group as a whole. With DANONE Way now deployed at nearly all our businesses, we¡¯re work- ing  on  new  initiatives  that  will  make sustainable  development  even  more integral  to  our  business  and  give  us closer  partnerships  with  all  our  main stakeholders.

There has been growing public de- bate on the connection between diet and  health.  Do  you  see  that  as  a threat or an opportunity for DANONE? Specialists regularly place our product portfolio at the top of the list for health, which  certainly  gives  us  a  lead  on competitors. And, of course, it is also a responsibility.   In  this,  we  draw  on resources?such as in-depth familiarity with nutrition sciences and specialized expertise in cultures and other areas? that we put to work in developing new products  with specific  health benefits. We have also stepped up research and developed a set of rigorous testing pro- cedures.  Our  health-centered  market positioning  means  that  we  must  be absolutely  irreproachable  not  only  as regards product quality but also in com- munications  targeting  consumers,  in keeping  with  our  aim  of  promoting healthy living as well as healthy eating.

You have said that DANONE will be making the fight against malnutrition a  priority. Is  that  for  humanitarian or business reasons? And what pro- gress was made in 2005?
An estimated 2.7 billion people around the world have to get by with less than two euros a day, and malnutrition con- tinues to take a heavy toll on children¡¯s growth  and life expectancy.  DANONE can  make  a  positive  contribution  by offering  quality  products   with  added vitamins and minerals at prices people can  afford.  That  is  the  approach  we have been testing  in  Africa  and  Asia with  biscuits  and  dairy  products.  We also aim to  increase local  production and create jobs, as we have in South Africa, where women in several  town- ships  work  as  Daniladies, selling  our products  in  their  neighborhoods.  We are still at the learning stage, since we have to take a completely fresh look at costs  and  the  way  we  produce  and distribute our products. But the important thing  to  remember is that  there is no conflict  between the demands of busi- ness and those of social progress. On the contrary?only  an  economically  viable solution can bring people lasting benefits.

Consumers are  expressing growing concern over the environmental im- pact of packaging. What is DANONE¡¯s position?
Packaging isn¡¯t  just  a problem.  It also protects the product, and is becoming all the more important as consumers take a more demanding view of food safety. And I would  emphasize that DANONE has played a pioneering role in developing collection  and  recycling  systems  for packaging waste. We have also signifi- cantly reduced the weight of our pack- aging. But  changing  patterns  of  con- sumption  are working  in  the  opposite direction, fueling demand for individual packaging. In this context, we need to make a qualitative leap, developing new technical  solutions  that  ultimately  will allow recycling or composting of nearly all packaging waste. On this point, re- search now under way should make it possible to replace petrochemical plas- tics with bioplastics within a few years. Naturally, progress hinges on the active involvement of all concerned, in busi- ness and in government. And DANONE naturally has a  responsibility to play a full part in the process.

------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ Danone 2006

Over 30 years ago, Antoine Riboud formalised the dual commitment to business performance and social progress for Groupe DANONE around the idea that economic development and social progress were interdependent.This strong conviction helped structure the development and organisation of the Group and inspired a voluntary policy of social responsibility and of human relations.

Within the context of globalisation, DANONE has to continue to deliver financial results, whilst reinforcing its awareness of local environments, creating value for the company and value for society at large.

Today, DANONE wants to star t a new section of this journey and develop an innovative social initiative in line with its mission to ¡°bring health through food to a majority of people¡±.

The Grameen DANONE Foods project is the best illustration of this ambition and addresses the poorest people in an emerging country, whilst aiming to improve nutrition and reduce pover ty by contributing to the local economy.

In Bangladesh, as in other countries where we want to develop this type of project, there is no question of charity.These initiatives are realised within the context of experimentation and apprenticeship for the mid/long term of DANONE.

To this end, they are subject to finance and specific profitability criteria, taking social results into account.The reason for this is that the individual solutions found (taking into accounts the costs, production and distribution methods, etc.) show themselves to be as viable as they are sustainable and multipliable. Economic and social factors are not mutually exclusive.

In order to accompany this social innovative step, whilst ensuring that the basic pillars of sustainable development are well-anchored in the core of operations of all the companies in the group, the board of directors has decided to set up a governance body dedicated to these questions: the Social Responsibility Committee.

Its mission will consist of:

- evaluating the results of the local initiatives in terms of company innovation, and formulating recommendations so that new ones may be taken,

- analysing the reality of internal practices in terms of social responsibility, based on the assessments of subsidiaries in the five basic areas covering the challenges facing DANONE, especially in terms of human rights, human resources, the environment, customers and consumers, governance and relations with local communities.

These two working areas form the new DANONE Way initiative, ¡°DANONE Way Ahead¡±.

Franck Riboud

------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ Danone 2007

Different sustainable company

In October 2007, the acquisition of Numico, a major player in the baby food and medical nutrition sector, provided a new dimension for DANONE¡¯s sustainable development initiative, following the sale of the biscuits business.

The Group¡¯s current perimeter can only serve to promote actions in favour of social innovation, to which we have been committed for several years. It helps make our company¡¯s activities, culture, exper tise and mission more coherent.

¡°Bringing health through food to as many people as possible, throughout their lives¡± now takes on a unified and focused economic and social aspect.

This clear positioning around health is anchored in a growth strategy that respects both nature
and human development.To achieve this ambition, Groupe DANONE is implementing both global and local initiatives, within a difficult economic climate, which is characterised by a significant rise in the cost for raw materials.

Fur thermore, the 2007 version of Groupe DANONE Way Ahead has star ted well, based on two pillars ? respecting the five main types of social principles and innovation. Some 84% of Fresh Dairy Products and Waters have been assessed according to human rights, human relations, the environment, the consumer and the principles of governance.

With regard to the second pillar, each subsidiary has embarked on projects designed to develop or consolidate economic activity, whilst contributing to actions that help local communities and involves employees.

Since 1995, environmental management has followed the ¡°Char ter for the environment¡±, which reached new heights in 2007.The production and packaging objectives set for 2000-2010 had already been achieved by 2008 and the Group now has the tools and organisations in place to allow it to measure its environmental footprint and to set up a new agenda that is in line with DANONE¡¯s missions and ambition.The reduction of CO2 and water consumption throughout the value creation chain are among the company¡¯s priorities.

The ¡°danone.communities¡± investment fund created in May 2007 has allowed the company to take on board other projects that help create a different business model in Bangladesh, in par tnership with the Grameen Bank. Last year saw a learning curve that is now bearing fruit.There will be similar experiments in the near future.

In terms of the principle of diversity and innovation, several of the Group¡¯s subsidiaries have made an active contribution.

The management of springs with water education and the protection of wetlands in several countries bear witness to this, with initiatives to help professional persons in difficulty, by creating a new sales network, with DANONE aiming to respond to multiple local problems.

Overall governance is led by the Social Responsibility Committee, which assesses our initiatives and makes the recommendations required by the board of directors.

The Group continues to base its sustainable development on a philosophy that encompasses innovative initiatives.

There is no doubt that this philosophy is already trickling through the new DANONE that is taking shape with the arrival of baby foods and medical nutrition.This is what makes DANONE a different sustainable company.

Franck Riboud

------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ Danone 2008


Social and Environmental Technical Report
Interview with Franck Riboud


What is your analysis of the year 2008?

Long before the year 2008 had ended, everyone, and especially ?nancial markets, were already looking anxiously towards 2009. However, I think that 2008 is an interesting year to analyse, because it allows us to draw some important  lessons to consider as we seek to envisage the near term future, especially for Danone.
The ?rst lesson is that we are yet again on track to meeting our targets: organic growth  in turnover (+8.4%), higher margins (over 53 basis points), and growth  in net earnings per share (+15% on a comparable basis). We have indeed experienced a ?rst half of record growth  but what is most interesting for me in terms of learnings, is the second half of the year. Even though the global crisis was apparent everywhere since  the summer of 2008,  our broad indicators remained in the green during the second half and the last quarter was marked by solid growth (6%), achieved in a largely toxic economic universe. This is not to say that Danone is immune to the crisis, but it demonstrates a real robustness, built over the years on the foundations of our biggest assets: strength in our brands, consistency and coherence of our strategy, and of our businesses, and our effective management of geographical balances. It also demonstrates the vigilant responsiveness and un?inching mobilisation of our teams. This is undoubtedly the most valuable quality to have in the present context.

The integration of Numico  seems to have contributed greatly to the quality of these results.

Indeed, that is precisely the second lesson of 2008, in the form of validation: acquiring the Infant Nutrition and Medical Nutrition divisions for Danone was the right strategic choice. The results are there to see in terms of growth,  margins, synergies (in this area, we will go far beyond the anticipated cost synergies of 45 million in 2008 and 15 million in 2009). The synergies are above all re?ected in terms of integration  and motivation  of the teams who  have played the game well on both sides. It is a success that we are especially proud of. It is proof not only that our two new global business lines are categories for the future, but also that, far from damaging these growing  businesses, we have in fact further energised them through  their integration. Integration,  while  always  a risky affair, proved in our case, to be particularly effective and ?uid.

What do  you  take away  from  the  year  2008  as regards  the  Danone¡¯s  social plan?

2008 was a pivotal year in the build up of what we have long called Danone¡¯s ¡°dual economic and social project¡±. On the one hand we have identi?ed 6 priority themes to focus on through to the year 2011 that integrate business performance and the creation of social or environmental value. For example, one such priority area is ¡°Danone For All¡± which aims to develop products and business models  that will enable us to provide quality nutrition  solutions to population groups with  low purchasing power  in a growing  number of country around the world.  On the other hand, in 2008, we decided to integrate social goals in the remuneration of the 1500 directors and key managers of Danone, with 30% of the variable remuneration related to social and environmental performance.


How  has the integration of Numico  affected this plan?

Danone has become the second largest global player in the nutrition of babies and very young children,  an age group  where  Danone¡¯s  mission  to  bring  health  through  nutrition  makes absolute sense. In January 2008, immediately after the acquisition, we engaged in dialogue with the organisations working on these issues. This dialogue facilitated a convergence on the interpretation and application of the World Health Organization Code concerning the marketing of breast milk substitutes (published in 1981), and we are now  determined to advance with concrete efforts. I am particularly convinced of the need to strengthen the support for promoting breastfeeding and subsequently to support young children having access to complementary balanced nutrition of a good quality.

In which areas has Danone  made most progress in 2008?

Measuring the environmental  footprint  is an area where  we made great progress  in 2008. Danone has developed a measurement tool to measure the carbon emissions of our operations by taking into account the entire value chain from upstream agricultural activities right through to the packaging end-of-life. This tool was tested in 2007 and more widely rolled out in 2008 to the Waters  and Dairy Products  Divisions.  All subsidiaries of the two  divisions  now  have precise knowledge of their impact and ambitious targets for reduction have been set until 2011. In addition to this very proactive action to reduce our direct impacts, Danone has embarked on  an innovative  approach  to  offset  the  emissions  remaining  after reduction.  In 2008,  in partnership with the Ramsar Convention and the International Union for the Conservation of Nature, we created the Danone Fund for Nature, whose purpose is to support the restoration of ecosystems combining carbon sequestration, maintenance of biodiversity and preservation of water resources. Initial achievements in 2009 include the restoration of mangroves, which play an important  role in either slowing or accelerating climate change. This innovative approach that emphasises reduction and compensation will enable us to move towards achieving carbon neutrality for our brands.

Bottled water, in  which you¡¯re  one  of  the  two world leaders,  is a  category that  is now  facing criticism  in  developed countries, both  on  its  price  and  its environmental impact  ...

There are many myths in this debate. Firstly, it must be clari?ed that mineral water is not an ¡°ecological aberration¡±: it is the opposite. In the true sense of the term, there is no product that can claim to be more natural. There is nothing  to ?lter, nothing  to hide, nothing  to add, or disguise. It emerges from the depths of the earth, free from any pollutants and receives no special treatment and no chemical treatment. It is even better than organic product. Which gives us yet another reality: the producers of mineral water are the best allies of the environment in the regions where they operate. For one simple reason: no other player has such an interest in protecting its environment. In saying this, the idea is not to ignore the issue of the environmental impact of the transport and packaging of mineral water. But again, we must recall some facts. For example, a total of 2/3  of shipments  of Danone Eaux France (Volvic, Evian, Badoit) are actually arranged by rail or barge. How many other activities can today claim to be so virtuous even in terms of transportation? As for the bottle, it is 100% recyclable (a quality beyond the reach of the majority of packaging items), it has become lighter each year and since the last few months has ?nally been given the right to be composed of 25% recycled material. One last thing, Evian, the ?rst mineral water in the world, will from 2011 also be our ?rst product to achieve neutrality in terms of carbon emissions.

What  do  you  say to  those  who  think that  the  choice  of  bottled water  is not necessarily rational when  you can choose to consume tap water?

There are several things. Firstly, whereas developed countries are very fortunate to have access to safe drinking water on an almost universal basis, this is far from being the case in all other regions of the world. In several countries the Danone natural water is often the only way to have access to safe drinking water at an affordable price. And then, we are not really speaking about the same thing. Bottled water, whether it is mineral or spring water, it is the rational choice for those who do not want to make any compromises with the only ¡°food¡± that is essential  for life: water. Mineral water represents a constant quality, an always pleasant taste that can always be selected and its transparent composition is clearly visible through  the packaging. This is the choice we must make for the more fragile, with whom, one can not take any risks: the elderly, the sick, or babies. But make no mistake, our issue here is not to slam tap water, but to make people realise a simple truth: when you are standing before the shelves of a supermarket, on the patio of a caf?, or in front of a vending machine, mineral water is not competing with tap water but rather with  other drinks,  usually sweetened,  always  less natural, more expensive and having an environmental impact far heavier than that of bottled water. For example, in a country like the United Kingdom where consumers are moving away from mineral water, it is to go overwhelmingly towards sweetened beverages. We must ?rst restore appreciation for the taste of drinking water.

Where  are we on the initiative launched by Danone  with Muhammad Yunus in
Bangladesh?

2008 was a year of learning, tempered with  the strong impact of the rising price of milk on the local market. This increased the degree of dif?culty of the challenge of marketing a yogurt brand at accessible prices to the very poor rural area of Bogra. Local teams have managed to ?nd ways to maintain the nutritional impact and the price level. We have also started selling to Dhakka, the capital of Bangladesh and we plan to start building a second plant in 2009.

What   are  the  possibilities of  replicating this  model  in  other   regions   of  the world?

We have already learned much from the experience of Bangladesh. The production  in micro- factories is a model that can be used in many emerging countries and we are beginning  to develop a marketing expertise that is markedly different from that of other countries where the Group has had a long presence.
Through  the SICAV  danone.communities  of which  Danone holds 20%, we  have begun  to expand our ?elds of experience in investing in water projects in Cambodia and in dairy products in Senegal. These investments in ¡°social business¡± are not signi?cant in ?nancial terms but they serve as essential laboratories for us to develop new approaches and new skills as part of the ¡°Danone For All¡± initiative. And they are also, rightly so, an extraordinary lever of motivation and pride.

Is Danone¡¯s  policy  in social matters at risk of being  called  into  question by the global  economic  crisis?

It is no secret that 2009  will be a year of uncertainty and complexity with increased currency volatility,  rising  unemployment  in  the  West,  lower  resistance  of  consumption  in  emerging countries ... We do not enjoy greater visibility over the horizon than others over different contexts. We have no magic formula either. But it is useless  to lament. In this context, everything is a question of attitude, courage and commitment. And developing the ability to drive on slippery surfaces. One must be more responsive, more attentive and take greater initiative. It is in this spirit that we entered 2009: with  realism and with  a stronger determination  and intensity of focus in the steering. And with very clear priorities. The ?rst being to seek maximum ef?ciency in all areas. In times of crisis, there is less room for careless imprecision. Then we will continue to improve our margins and our earnings per share (10% for comparable data) because this is how we are identifying our investment capabilities and future growth.
Regarding Danone¡¯s social plan, we consider it to be a competitive advantage and the best way to prepare for the future. The current crisis is not only ?nancial and economic. Clearly it also affects lifestyle, production and consumption. The goals that we set for example to develop new products for emerging countries or to reduce the impact of our activities on the environment are an essential investment to invent solutions that will be necessary tomorrow.

Will  you continue to innovate? Do the  strict  new  regulations governing health claims pose an obstacle or a hazard?

We will obviously continue to innovate. Energising the market is our responsibility as leader, and somehow, I would  say we do not quite know how to do things differently. R & D teams, in particular, remain focused on this objective. We will probably be just a little more focused and try to better prioritise our launches. On the issue of regulation regarding claims (which is being initiated in Europe), we believe, on the contrary, that it is going in the right direction. Obviously this will require adjustments in the early stages because it will be necessary for the various players to understand precisely what the regulatory authorities expect with regard to scienti?c dossiers and what the criteria for their decisions will be. There will probably be a lot of back and forth during the ?rst few months. This mutual learning is inevitable for a new subject. But the rules will be eventually be clari?ed and this will allow companies seriously investing in real science and research to distinguish themselves through  their speci?c claims. In this area, Danone with its 1200 researchers, its several clinical studies published in recent years clearly has a real edge.

You have just announced the creation of an endowment fund for the development of the Danone  ecosystem. What  is it about and where  did this idea originate?

It is born of a simple fact... That of the increasing interdependence of businesses with their direct economic environment.  This interdependence was very cruelly exposed with  the global crisis and we have seen how some companies, however successful, could be brutally undermined by the dif?culties of their economic and social environments. This should remind us that it is in the interests of an enterprise to take care of this environment, what might be termed, by analogy, as the ¡°ecosystem¡±. This is the idea which is at the origin of this fund.
We had already established in several places in the world various structures of local economic development but we believe without doubt that we must now systematise this approach to give it scale and sustainability. Funded by Danone, the fund will be ?nanced by an initial endowment of 100 million euros complemented by an annual contribution of one percent of our net income. It will fund initiatives identi?ed by our various subsidiaries in the jurisdictions where we operate: the development of skills among our local suppliers; creation of economic activities linked to our businesses (for example, food distribution micro-enterprises, etc.), and occupational integration programmes  involving  our plants  ... This is not  an emergency or recapitalisation fund,  but rather, an initiative to proactively prevent crisis situations. Nor will this be a tool for ?nancing any eventual competitive plans for our sites. It will also not be the solution to all our problems. Simply put, it is an initiative to strengthen the economic fabric to which we belong and with which we maintain a relationship of mutual co-dependence.
At Danone, we believe that is our role as an enterprise and it is a way for us to ensure our development in the long term.

Precisely what will  Danone  look like in 5 years?

We will ?rst have to focus on the present and skillfully weather the stormy economic climate. At the same time, we must continue to stay the course and continue to develop in the medium term. I do not  think the Danone of 2012  or 2015  will  inevitably be very different  from the Danone of 2008. But it will, hopefully, be more in tune with  the great universal aspirations: more nature, more health, more attention paid to men and women. In any case it is this strong ambition that makes us want to get up every morning!

Franck Riboud

------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ Danone 2009

Editorial - Franck Riboud

The year 2009 marked a milestone in the long history of Danone¡¯s economic and social agenda. Confronted as we were, like most companies, with the economic crisis and declining purchasing power that affected consumers worldwide, we could have made the choice to pull back, by deferring the implementation of the ¡°dual project¡± to better times. Convinced that this crisis was not only financial and economic but also social and environmental, we carried out a radically different analysis. We¡¯re not only facing a ¡°crisis¡±, with the implication that once it has passed, things will return to their earlier state. We are facing a profound change, one which is significantly transforming our lifestyles, production processes and consumption habits, its impact extending from the distribution of wealth on our planet to the values that help shape our societies. This is a transformation that has only just begun. Speaking only of
the food industry, it is difficult to break down the issues between the billion people who suffer from malnutrition or the growing problem of obesity, which affects other populations, or the need to increase food resources while using less water, energy and land.

The mission set by Danone, to ¡°bring health through food to as many people as possible¡± has structured our whole approach and driven the decision in 2009 to integrate, even more deeply, economic and social considerations into our company¡¯s strategy. Four issues closely related to the mission have been defined: ¡°Health¡± that is to say, the company¡¯s contribution to public health through nutrition, ¡°For All¡±, that is to say, the creation of products and economic  models accessible to population groups with low purchasing power, ¡°Nature¡± to drastically reduce the environmental impact of our activities throughout the lifecycle of our products, ¡°People¡± by giving all of our employees the opportunity to develop, to anticipate the changes and to give meaning to their work. Each of these focal points is acts as a ¡°transformer¡± of
the company and we are again only at the beginning: for example, ¡°For All¡± requires us to strongly question our ways of thinking and our methods in order to invent
new business and social responses. For each one of these issues, an organisation, goals and objectives and resources have been established in 2009 with the strong involvement of members of the Group Executive Committee.

2009 was also the year of creation of the Danone Ecosystem Fund which aims to support projects that create sustainable jobs in the Danone ecosystem, that is to say all of the activities and businesses that depend directly on those of the group: agricultural producers, suppliers, distributors, territorial regions around plants and facilities, etc.
It is commonly  said that a company cannot develop and grow in a desert and that
a live and dynamic ecosystem is a guarantee of the company¡¯s sustainability. It is also necessary to identify and deal with all the consequences and secure the means to
act upon this ecosystem. The Fund project was approved by a very large majority of votes by shareholders at the Annual General Meeting in 2009. Endowed with with
100 million euros, it began operating in late 2009 by funding the first agricultural and distribution projects. While we¡¯re still in the learning phase, many Country Business Units are already working on projects. When the Fund reaches its cruising speed, it will be very important to measure the economic and social impacts of these programmes in order to replicate and deploy them more widely.

Another factor in the acceleration and integration of sustainable development in business operations: after a first pilot year in 2008, it was decided to formalize the structure of the variable pay system based on three tiers: one tier being economic and financial, the levers of business transformation representing the second tier, and a social tier founded on environmental and social performance indicators.
The system concerns the management committee members of all Danone Country Business Units across the world and helps to move the entire organisation forward in a meaningful manner. The same spirit of enterprise transformation also characterises the widespread deployment in 2009 of the system for measuring the carbon impact of our activities and its integration into the decision making process. This is another interesting example which demonstrates that everything is inter-connected: in greatly reducing our energy consumption or packaging materials, we reduce our costs. By setting ambitious targets for reducing our environmental  impact, we commit ourselves to thinking and working differently, thereby anticipating what the constraints of the future will be for all enterprises.

Danone¡¯s approach has always been a mixture of vision and pragmatism. Starting from some fundamental beliefs, a little intuition and a lot of experimentation, we are striving to follow a business model where economic and social performance nourish and feed each other. I hope that 2010 will enable us to capitalise on the strong momentum generated in 2009.

Franck Riboud, CEO.

------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Supplementary Information 

The mission set by Danone, to ¡°bring health through food to as many people as possible¡± has structured our whole approach and driven the decision in 2009 to integrate, even more deeply, the economic and social facets in our company¡¯s strategy.

Starting from some fundamental beliefs, a little intuition and a lot of experimentation,  we are striving to follow a business model where economic and social performance nourish and feed each other.

------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ Danone 2010

Franck Riboud interview 

The ¡°dual economic and social project¡± that is the foundation of the Danone way of doing business is almost forty years old. What still makes it timely today?
Franck Riboud: this ¡°dual project¡± was born of a simple fact that remains just as true today: a company cannot succeed in the long run if it turns its back on the society it is a part of, if it only looks to its short-term economic gain. Danone¡¯s founder understood very quickly that creating economic value and social value are both essential to a company¡¯s solidity.

Much has changed since 1972. What are the major factors that have shaped the company¡¯s evolution over these past years, and what are those that promote a different vision of doing business?
FR: we simply forgot that business performance is also measured by the health of the surrounding society: if this society is not doing well, or is getting poorer, there will be fewer consumers or less frequent consumption; which in turn means more difficulty finding efficient subcontracting and supply channels, etc. At Danone, for example, for every job within the company there are between five and ten jobs generated outside, at our milk producers and industrial and service suppliers. Danone¡¯s competitiveness and that of the regions where it does business are therefore very closely linked.

Do the interests of business converge with meeting social needs?
FR: it is common to oppose the ¡°social¡± and ¡°economic¡± spheres, where social needs are perceived as a cost and therefore generally detrimental to a company¡¯s competi- tiveness. I see things differently. Take food and its contri- bution to health, which is at the core of Danone¡¯s mission. The challenges are huge at the scale of the planet: support- ing people by offering healthy and balanced nutrition for every stage of life, helping reduce nutritional imbalances that lead to obesity or dietary deficiencies, allowing everyone access to quality food. I see no opposition here, but rather an extraordinary convergence between the economic and social spheres. A bad diet has direct conse- quences on people¡¯s health, but also major economic consequences in terms of public health costs. Food companies like Danone should offer solutions that please consumers and respond to public health concerns in each country. This can be an impressive catalyst for innovation and growth.

The same is true for the environment: reducing energy and raw materials consumption and developing clean technologies are good for the planet, and also for business.

Social needs are vast, in terms of health, housing, education and preserving natural resources. Companies that innovate and contribute to effective solutions
to meet these needs will strengthen their economic competitiveness by creating social value. In the same way, who can believe that a company whose products and services have no real social utility can succeed long-term?

In 2008, Danone¡¯s general management decided to step up the pace. Why?
FR: the financial, economic and social crisis that erupted in 2008 was revelatory. It was largely the product of the evolution I have described, and it highlighted the need to provide direction and to redefine the vision of the company we wanted to be. Danone¡¯s Executive Board did this by focusing on four strategic priorities that contribute to Danone¡¯s mission of ¡°bringing health through food to as many people as possible.¡± The first two priorities, ¡°Health¡± and ¡°For All,¡± are directly related to the development of our business and our growth objectives, while the two others, ¡°People¡± and ¡°Nature,¡± are characteristic of Danone¡¯s approach. For each of these priorities we have defined a goal and objectives with an initial phase to be completed at end 2012. We want these priorities to help transform Danone¡¯s businesses, operations and organizations.

For example, the ¡°Nature¡± priority is leading us along a transformative path. A food company is closely connected to natural life cycles. Danone bottles natural spring water, and maintaining this water supply into the future is vital both to the company and to the people who depend on it. Our products come from milk, fruits and plants. We want to bring the entire Danone organization into alignment with this approach by progressively becoming an environmentally neutral company. The first step is to massively reduce the carbon footprint of our industrial processes, packaging and logistics. To effect this change at every level, an ambitious 30% reduction goal has been set for 2008 to 2012, and integrated into the objectives of Danone¡¯s 1,500 senior managers around the world. Alongside this reduction policy, Danone has launched innovative carbon offset programs by investing in the restoration and preservation of ecosystems that play a vital role in food security and in supporting the income of rural populations in Africa, Asia and Latin America.

We are now at the half-way point in this program. Are we on track to meeting our objectives? What are the catalysts and obstacles along the way? 
FR: we are right in line with the plan we have defined thanks to strong commitment at every level and in every area of the company. The innovative transformation that will result in delivering both economic and social value is at work. This change cannot happen without some resistance, but I am impressed by the teams¡¯ motivation. For example, at the end of 2009, Danone created the Danone Ecosystem Fund with the approval of its board of directors and its shareholders, endowed with ¢æ100 million for the purpose of supporting initiatives that strengthen the ¡°Danone ecosystem.¡± The principle is that any project financed by the Fund must be launched and carried through by a local CBU. In just one year, more than
20 projects have been proposed and financed in some fifteen different countries. Many are extremely innovative. They involve support for small farmers, job creations in local distribution and package recycling, for example.
All these projects contribute to building a solid founda- tion for the company in these countries.

Does this approach lead to the creation of new products and services?
FR: according to experts, the global population will reach eight billion by 2025. It is crucial to find solutions to feed this growing population while sparing our limited natural resources. This will be hard to do under current models. We must come up with new approaches. Pilot projects such as Grameen-Danone  in Bangladesh compel us to think differently, to come up with solutions that break with the way the food industry has developed in recent years: low-cost micro-factories, products that are easy to distribute and preserve without a cold chain, ingredients from local farms, etc. Other experiments in Indonesia and Mexico for example have allowed us to test out new concepts for accessible products with a high nutritional impact or local distribution.

When we look at the reality of nutrition needs in the world, we realize we have a huge innovation project ahead of us. I am convinced that we must move faster, bring our Research & Development and marketing teams even closer to the field, listen actively to needs, strive to invent solutions that truly meet these needs, and work with other players ? public authorities, NGOs ? who have intimate knowledge of the populations concerned. Naturally we will make mistakes, and certain products or services will not work out, but others will be tomorrow¡¯s rising stars. Here again, creating shared value involves changing the way we work.

How do you view your relationship with the farming sector upstream?
FR: these past years we have moved into a very tense phase with regard to agricultural raw materials, with scarcity of certain products and major price fluctuations. This situation is not temporary, but likely to last and perhaps to worsen. Farming is once again becoming a strategic business on a global scale. Industrialists have a responsibility to ensure supply for their factories at competitive cost compared to the competition by working in partnership with producers. We must support production models that help expand agricultural production while maintaining environmental balance and taking into account the diversity of regional situations. Pilot programs supported financially and technically by Danone with milk producers in France, Ukraine, Egypt and Mexico are opportunities for us to explore these interactions between economic, social and environmental factors. Danone and the producers that supply our factories are part of the same ¡°ecosystem,¡± where each one benefits from the other¡¯s good health.

The ¡°local¡± appears to be back at the center of Danone¡¯s concerns
FR: Danone has always been a ¡°multi-local¡± company with Country Business Units (CBUs) that produce locally for local consumers. And so we remain. 
The globalization of these past twenty years has fostered the myth that distance no longer matters, that low logistics and information costs mean we can relocate to wherever production costs are lowest. However, when this movement is pushed to extremes, the resulting social and environmental costs bring its validity into question. Without denying the undoubted benefits of international trade, companies must weigh their decisions by taking all aspects into consideration. Transporting less, storing smaller amounts and distributing locally can make a lot of sense in certain situations.

You make it sound like the traditional division of roles between companies, NGOs and public authorities is being redefined.
FR: we all suffer from the old divisions between social, political and economic agents. To caricature, companies ¡°do economics¡± and what is known as ¡°Corporate Social Responsibility¡± aims to correct the negative social and environmental impacts of their business. NGOs work in the social and environmental fields, and companies might finance them or provide technical assistance to support their mission, through sponsorships, partnerships or charity donations. Public authorities serve to protect the public interest, defining and enforcing the rules that apply to all.

The limits of this ¡°partitioned¡± approach in solving the problems faced by mankind can clearly be seen today. Whatever the agents and their role, our real purpose is to create shared value. This must be the yardstick for our actions, not the money spent or the means applied. The experience of Danone teams in numerous countries shows us that we can ¡°co-develop¡± with other players whose roles and skills are different and complementary.

Let us be clear. I don¡¯t think that companies are here to ¡°save the planet.¡± We have neither the responsibility nor the means to respond to every social need.

But together with the Danone teams, I am trying to put a new conception of business into practice, where the economic sphere can contribute to solving a certain number of social issues.

What is your greatest wish for Danone?
FR: that Danone remains what it is, a company where people share pleasure and passion, are free to try new things, and pay close attention to the results. Without these results, we would not have the freedom to try to implement our vision of business.

------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Supplementary Information 

¡°My vision for danone: a company that creates economic value while creating social value¡±

------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ Danone 2011

Editorial: Franck Riboud

People often ask me why Danone¡¯s sustainable development action places such importance on social innovation projects. For example, why did we include this focus in the individual targets of the company¡¯s 1,400 managers? Why have we set up investment funds like the Danone Ecosystem Fund and, more recently, the Livelihoods Fund? What economic benefit can a major corporation like Danone expect in return? And should we continue in this way despite the difficult and uncertain global context?

My answer to those who might be tempted to turn back is simple: in sustainable development more than any other area, we can only rise to the challenges if we are able to develop radically different approaches. This requires the ability to explore and try out new ways. It is therefore more vital than ever that Danone¡¯s eyes and ears be wide open to the world, to meet current expectations and make the necessary changes to prepare the company for those of tomorrow. Our approach of being an open-minded company seeking to co-design new solutions with our stakeholders is firmly rooted in Danone¡¯s culture and model and contributes to our overall long-term performance.

The credibility of a global food company like Danone hinges on our capacity to be consistent in our mission and to adjust to local conditions. In 2011, Danone continued efforts on the strategic priorities(1)  defined in 2008 and I would like to mention a few examples here:

? in inventing new models to bring health through food "to as many people as possible," 2011 was marked by the creation of a production and R&D unit in India dedicated to low-income populations. We also launched Fundooz, a first nutrition product for children.
The experience in India will enhance  action we have been taking for five years in Bangladesh to develop products and distribution channels that meet the needs of a greater number of consumers. These new approaches prompt us to question ourselves and they drive innovation in countries where the group has long been established; 

? on the "Nature" priority, we share the conviction that production methods and consumption patterns seen in the past fifty years cannot be generalized across the planet; we must bring about profound changes. From this perspective, the ambitious goal of reducing the group¡¯s carbon emissions by 30% between 2008 and end-2012 is on target, since we achieved a 27.5% reduction by the end of 2011. This goal demanded a lot of the teams but it also accelerated the move towards a low-carbon "circular economy" in which materials will be recycled infinitely. This revolution also leads to significant cost reductions;

? In 2011, Danone created the Livelihoods Fund, establishing a link between food security and climate change. After testing the concept in Senegal where, since 2008, 10,000 hectares of mangrove forest have been restored to provide fish resources, protect rice fields, and store significant amounts of carbon, we asked other companies to join us in creating Livelihoods. This shared platform has already invested in other major projects in Africa and Asia and contributes to the carbon offset programs of these companies;

? the quality of the raw materials Danone uses for its products, such as water, milk, cereal and fruit, is a key focus for the group. The Danone Ecosystem Fund established in 2009 progressed tremendously in 2011, supporting 35 projects in total, primarily in agriculture and water resource preservation. From Ukraine to Indonesia, via France and Mexico, these programs provide a testing ground to foster farming models that meet our economic, social and environmental requirements;

? For Danone employees working in countries with no welfare system, the highlight of the year will be the introduction of the Dan'Cares program for basic healthcare coverage. The program benefitted 28,000 employees in 2011 and will be rolled out to the entire workforce in 2012.

Despite the global economic upheaval that prevailed in 2011, Danone continued to forge ahead with the double objective of delivering annual financial performance while developing our capacity to shape the future.

Franck Riboud
Danone¡¯s CEO

------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Supplementary Information 

"In sustainable development more than any other area, we can only rise to the challenges if we are able to develop radically different approaches"




----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Groupe Danone 2012

The year 2012 confirmed in spectacular manner the profound shift in the global economy that is gathering pace. On the one hand, new economic powers such as China, India and Brazil are growing as other economies such as Indonesia and Nigeria are emerging as future powers. On the other, many countries of the so-called developed world are marked by stagnation, recession and a worrisome financial situation.

This trend is also reflected in Danone¡¯s activity. The group continued to record strong, and in some cases very strong growth in numerous countries, further strengthening its positions in the emerging economies. In Europe, however, sales and margins in 2012 were affected in several of the group¡¯s major historical countries such as Spain and France. Given this situation, management¡¯s responsibility consists in adjusting its strategies quickly and rethinking its company organization in order to take advantage of the growth momentum in the new economies while regaining maneuvering room in Europe, which remains a major region for the group. Significant changes are under way to enable Danone to ¡°reinvent¡± itself in response to this new global environment.

In this rapidly changing world, Danone¡¯s actions are guided by its ¡°dual economic and social project,¡± which celebrated its 40th anniversary in 2012. When visionary Antoine Riboud conceived this ¡°dual project¡± back in 1972, he felt that economic and social (or societal) interests should not be pitted against one another, but instead that a company¡¯s duty was to find a way to combine the two and to make the necessary adjustments for a given context. This vision does not lock the company into a straightjacket of rigid social or environmental obligations, but enables it to adapt to local environments in order to come up with the right models that create both economic value as well as social and environmental value.

The success of the Danone Ecosystem Fund provides a useful illustration of this approach. In three years, this fund has invested in 43 projects, some of which have already become sizeable in their own right. These projects are all conceived and managed locally by Danone subsidiaries in partnership with Non-Governmental Organizations. They all have a direct relationship with Danone¡¯s economic ecosystem. They include, for example, the development of a high-quality milk supply chain with small producers in Ukraine, Egypt, Brazil and China, the recycling of plastic bottles in Indonesia and Mexico, and local distribution in several countries that creates numerous jobs and helps market products to new customer bases.

These projects are breaking new ground. They are sustainable because they are connected to Danone¡¯s economic activity and bring economic value to the company which finances them (supplying milk or the raw materials used to manufacture bottles, sales development). They are also sustainable because they create considerable social and environmental value (improving the income and social condition of milk producers, waste-pickers and salesmen, as well as their families while making a positive environmental impact).

In the environmental area, Danone continued its efforts despite a generally unfavorable international context and in 2012 achieved the ambitious goals set in 2008, namely to reduce the group¡¯s greenhouse gas emissions by 30% worldwide. Certain Danone brands such as Evian have achieved reductions that exceed 40% and are striving to achieve carbon neutrality thanks to the innovative measures of the Livelihoods Fund. This fund was launched by Danone at end-2011 and has now been joined by other large corporations. Here again, this carbon reduction target was achieved by striving for the right combination of productivity gains and environmental impact. Energy efficiency and innovation in logistics and packaging materials must serve our two-fold objective of being competitive and transforming our production methods. 

Upstream from its processing activity, Danone is conscious of the strategic role played by agriculture both now and in the future and of the challenges involved in securing its agricultural raw materials. The sustainable agriculture project launched in 2012 will play an increasingly central role in the group¡¯s strategy. The idea is to promote sustainable agricultural models based on their economic viability and agricultural practices that ensure food quality, health and taste while respecting soil and plant quality, the water cycle or animal well-being. 

Here and in other areas, the compass of the dual economic and social project will enable Danone to stay the course pragmatically so as to continue making progress while taking into account the diversity of situations.

----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Groupe Danone 2013

The events that occured in 2013, convinced me, more than ever before, of two things. Firstly, that sustainable development is not a virtue in business, but rather a business wisdom. To mention just a few examples, soaring raw materials prices and the complexity of processes across the supply chain, for which we paid the price in 2013, call for global reflection with regard to issues that are well beyond the scope of the company¡¯s strict legal responsibility. 

And secondly, that nothing can be taken for granted. Danone has long been committed to an approach that puts sustainable development at the heart of its strategies and business processes. Yet, the progress we make is never consistent or permanent. In 2013, for instance, Danone ranked world number one in the ATNI (Access to Nutrition Index) which positions food and beverage companies based on consumer access to healthy nutrition. This achievement confirms the group¡¯s strengths in this area but also highlights certain points that demand our attention. 

Another example in a different field: workplace safety. After improving consistently over ten years thanks to a very proactive policy, results took a downturn in 2013. We must revise our approach and make further progress.

Regarding environmental issues, 2013 was a year of review. Following six years of efforts in which the group exceeded its targets and achieved a 37% reduction in global carbon emissions per metric ton produced, Danone¡¯s ultimate goal is to cut emissions by more than 50% by 2020. In 2013, we also meticulously examined our agricultural supply to define and test a sustainable agriculture approach in a dozen countries, incorporating economic, ecological and social aspects as well as impact on nutrition and health. 

We still firmly believe that for a food group like Danone, reducing our carbon footprint, securing sustainable farming supplies, managing water resources and innovating in recyclable packaging will increasingly contribute to build competitive advantages. They will be the cornerstones of the group¡¯s Nature platform and goals for 2020. 

The funds we dedicate to social innovation with our shareholders¡¯ agreement also continued their development in 2013: the Danone Ecosystem Fund, for instance, supported 47 projects carried out by Danone subsidiaries in partnership with local organizations.

Relating directly to the company¡¯s businesses, i.e. milk supply from small-scale farmers, packaging recycling and local distribution, these projects allowed the group to develop models delivering both business and social impacts. Some of them will be expanded on a large scale in the years ahead. The Livelihoods carbon investment fund created by Danone and which now involves nine major French and European corporations is another example. Agroforestry investments already made by Livelihoods in Africa, Asia and Latin America will enable eight million tons of carbon to be stored while creating value for rural communities.

These innovation programs are rooted in Danone¡¯s culture and its dual economic and social project. They are crucial to continue building Danone for the future.

----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Groupe Danone 2014

At Danone we believe that what we do is as important as how we do it.

So in order to fulfill our mission to bring health through food to the largest number of people, we embarked on a passionate journey towards a socially responsible growth model for a long time now. 

This journey started in 1972 when Antoine Riboud set the parameters of Danone¡¯s dual economic and social project. Since then, many years went by. We have grown and profoundly transformed our company while always honoring our dual commitment to business success and social progress.

Looking back, we have many reasons to be proud of what we have accomplished in all these years but we are also conscious of the great challenges that lie ahead. Indeed, in a world that is growing increasingly complex, volatile and fragmented, today more than ever before we need to resync economic performance and social development. 

We need to transform Danone while remaining Danone

That is why in 2014 we have reaffirmed our mission, enhancing our profound conviction that food is health¡¯s most significant partner. This mission is embodied in our Danone 2020 plan which will enable us to strengthen our foundations for the years to come. Finally, both this mission and plan are supported by a new governance where us, the Chairman and the CEO of the company share the same passion for the Danone way of doing business.

Because we believe that our mission is uniquely positioned to address health issues in today¡¯s society, we have put in place a Product Compliance Board, whose mission is to supervise Danone¡¯s engagement on health and nutrition. Also, in order to systematically assess the relevance of our local offers, we have reinforced our three major research programs: Nutriplanet, Nutriways and Nutri-Impact.

Because we believe that healthy food can only come from healthy nature and that the energy and raw materials that we consume change the nature of our planet, we continue our efforts to reduce our environmental footprint, reaching a -41,6% reduction in CO2 intensity since 2007. And because we cannot do it alone, we hold regular meetings with our Nature Key Opinion Leaders Board, a panel of environmental external experts that inspire and challenge us.

Because we believe our employees are Danone¡¯s best competitive advantage, and the key to long-term value-creation and since safety at work is our first priority, lost time injuries frequency rate has dropped for the 10th year in a row, dividing by 5 since the inception of the WISE program. We have also extended our Dan¡¯Cares program, which standards now cover 70% of the company¡¯s total headcount. Also, we have launched the One Learning a Day program, thus enabling the experience of digital learning for all of our workers around the world. Finally, two employees have been appointed to sit at our Board of Directors.

Because we believe that a company cannot thrive in isolation from its community and its ecosystem, we have continued our investments through our three social business platforms: Danone Communities, Livelihoods Fund and Ecosystem Fund, reaching today almost 4 million beneficiaries. Especially regarding our supply chain, we published a Sustainable Agriculture White Paper, the objective being to kick start an open discussion with civil society on the issues that matter most on this field. Finally, we have carried out a materiality analysis, consulting more than 20 stakeholders, with the objective to ensure the topics we address through our strategy are also the most relevant and material to society.

We believe in our mission and in the power of the solutions that arise from co-creation processes between Danoners and the communities that surround us. So we invite you to join us in this exciting journey.

See you on the road!
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Unilever 2012

Volatility and uncertainty ? the new normal

2012 proved to be another challenging year for the global economy. Commodity markets remained volatile and costs rose significantly in excess of expectations. The threat of the world¡¯s largest economy going over a ¡®fiscal cliff¡¯ and the euro crisis added uncertainty and undermined fragile consumer confidence.

Overall we continue to see sluggish growth in most developed markets contrasted by relatively healthy consumption and growth in aspiring markets. These both have consequences in terms of the world¡¯s social and environmental equilibrium. 

Inequality and rising levels of unemployment ? especially among young people ? place added strains on social cohesion. But the biggest challenge is the continuing threat to ¡®planetary boundaries¡¯, resulting in extreme weather patterns and growing resource constraints. These have an increasing impact on people¡¯s lives.

Put simply, we cannot thrive as a business in a world where too many people are still excluded, marginalised or penalised through global economic activity; where nearly 1 billion go to bed hungry every night, 2.8 billion are short of water and increasing numbers of people are excluded from the opportunity to work.

Our vision for growth

We remain convinced that businesses that address both the direct concerns of citizens and the needs of the environment will prosper over the long term. We need to build new business models that enable responsible, equitable growth that is decoupled from environmental impact.

This thinking lies at the heart of the Unilever Sustainable Living Plan and our Compass vision of doubling the size of the business whilst reducing our environmental footprint and increasing our positive social impact. To achieve our vision, we have set clear goals to halve the environmental footprint of our products, to help more than 1 billion people take action to improve their health and well-being, to source 100% of our agricultural raw materials sustainably and to enhance the livelihoods of people across our value chain.

As the thinking becomes embedded in our business, there is increasing evidence that it is accelerating our growth in ways that contribute to positive change in people¡¯s lives.

Strong business performance

Unilever performed well in 2012, despite difficult economic conditions.

Turnover increased by 10.5%, taking Unilever through the ¢æ50 billion barrier, a significant milestone to becoming an ¢æ80 billion company. Emerging markets grew for the second consecutive year by more than 11% and now account for 55% of total business. Personal Care and Home Care showed double-digit growth, in line with our strategic priorities. 

Unilever Sustainable Living Plan

The Unilever Sustainable Living Plan (USLP) inspires us to grow in line with our new purpose to make sustainable living commonplace. The lens of sustainable living is helping us to drive brands that have a strong purpose in people¡¯s lives, to reduce costs and take waste out of the system and to drive innovation that will make a positive difference to the environmental and social challenges facing us all. The Plan pushes us to think ahead, reducing risk and making the business more resilient for the long term. 

In 2012 we continued to make good progress delivering the Plan¡¯s commitments. Our factories made great strides in cutting energy, water and waste. For example all our US operations have moved to purchasing their energy from certified, renewable sources and more than half our sites worldwide have achieved zero non-hazardous waste to landfill. 

What makes our commitment unique is that it is across the total value chain. We are not only managing our own and upstream operations, but we are also determined to help people to live more sustainably through the impact of our products in their lives.

We have maintained the momentum towards our target of sourcing all our agricultural raw materials sustainably, reaching 36% by the end of 2012. All our palm oil is now covered by GreenPalm certificates. We have made a start in buying traceable oil. Investment in a new palm oil processing factory in Indonesia, working with partners and other initiatives are all helping us to make progress towards our new commitment to 100% certified sustainable palm oil which is traceable back to the plantations on which it is grown.

We are also helping to improve the livelihoods of farmers while guaranteeing future supplies, and we will increasingly place a special focus on women, due to the multiplier effect we know that women have in developing societies. We are working with many partners, including with Rainforest Alliance on tea for Lipton, with Barry Callebaut on cocoa for Magnum and with vegetable farmers through Knorr¡¯s Sustainability Partnership Fund.

Brands that are starting to put their sustainable living ambition at the heart of their proposition not surprisingly enjoyed strong growth. Lifebuoy soap delivered another year of double-digit growth while scaling up its handwashing campaigns. Our Brush Day and Night oral health campaign, which encourages parents and children to adopt good brushing habits, reached 49 million people and has helped our Signal brand grow by 22% since 2008. 

We see an equal acceleration in sustainability-led innovations, such as great-tasting low fat margarines with up to 80% less saturated fat than butter (and less environmental impact) and more concentrated detergents.

Challenges remain

We still face challenges in some important areas. 

Scaling up to reach 1 billion people cost-effectively with hygiene programmes that make handwashing a habit remains a challenge. Equally, we are finding that helping people to use less hot water and energy when washing, showering and doing the laundry is challenging. We continue to experiment with ways to tackle this, such as detergents which perform well in shorter wash cycles, and dry shampoo which might encourage people to wash their hair with hot water less often.

Through working with Oxfam on a study of our business in Vietnam over 2011-12 we have gained important insights into human and labour rights in our own and our suppliers¡¯ operations. The study has implications for our global business. We are identifying how we can promote sustainable livelihoods for all our workers and those in our value chains.

In areas where big breakthroughs are needed, we must step up joint working with others. Making more progress on healthy eating, for example, will require action across the industry whilst governments will need to take a bigger lead on action to combat climate change and decarbonise energy supplies.

Overall it is clear that we will need creative as well as science-based solutions if we are to achieve our full ambition by the end of the decade. 

Working with partners

Partnerships are key to unlocking these solutions. So I particularly want to thank the partners who are assisting us to deliver this new business model: NGOs who are helping us to address real issues, suppliers who are bringing us solutions for sustainable living, and our customers with whom we share an ambition to reach consumers at scale.

With scale comes responsibility ? so we must continue to play a leadership role in seeking solutions for global transformational issues like climate change, food security and poverty alleviation.

This is why we are working with organisations and initiatives such as the Consumer Goods Forum, the World Business Council for Sustainable Development, the World Economic Forum, the Tropical Forest Alliance 2020, Refrigerants, Naturally!, the Global Green Growth Forum and the UN¡¯s Zero Hunger Challenge and Scaling Up Nutrition initiatives. This is also why I agreed to join the UN Secretary General¡¯s High Level Panel to review the Post-2015 Development Agenda. 

Looking ahead

Despite the scale of the task, I believe we are on track to become a sustainable growth company. But one thing is sure ? this will not be possible without the dedication and hard work of our 173,000 colleagues and our many partners around the world. They are demonstrating the power of purpose, making Unilever again ¡®fit to win¡¯.

I hope this report gives you a good sense of the progress we are making, and our ambition for the future. Please contact me if you have comments and suggestions that will help us at:

Paul_Polman.SustainableLiving@unilever.com

Warm regards

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Unilever 2013

No message

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Unilever 2014

We are learning how sustainability can generate growth, control costs and manage risk. The economic case is clear. 

Through the Unilever Sustainable Living Plan we have committed to halving our environmental impact, improving the health and well-being of more than a billion people, and enhancing the livelihoods of millions working in our value chain ? and we¡¯ve set tough targets to make sure we deliver. We¡¯re working with other organisations through partnerships that have the potential to change things on a global scale ? with a focus on climate change and deforestation; sustainable agriculture and smallholder farmers; and water, sanitation and hygiene.

Why are we doing this? Because we know the world is changing. 

Climate change is taking effect. Water and food supplies are increasingly scarce. Population figures are growing fast. Meeting basic hygiene and sanitation needs is even more of a challenge ? and stretching the planet¡¯s resources further still. 

We can see how people are already affected by these changes. And we are experiencing similar challenges as commodity costs rise, markets become unstable and raw materials harder to source.

Business as usual is not an option. So we are developing a new way of doing business where sustainability drives everything we do. A business model in which: 

¡á all raw materials come from sustainable sources 
¡á people¡¯s health and well-being are a priority 
¡á workplace rights and opportunities are improved and women get a fair deal 
¡á the environment is safeguarded for future generations. 

Unilever has a history of tackling some of the big issues that society faces. Back in the 19th century our business was founded to provide mass market products such as soap and spreads to improve hygiene and nutrition. Today, the Unilever Sustainable Living Plan is driving sustainability into every corner of our business and generating new opportunities and growth:

¡á more people are choosing purpose-driven brands, such as Dove and Lifebuoy 
¡á as consumers¡¯ needs adjust due to changes in the environment, we¡¯re innovating with new products such as laundry products that use less water 
¡á training more smallholder farmers in sustainable practices is making our supply chain more secure.

Progress towards our ambitious 2020 goals shows promise. So far we¡¯ve helped nearly 400 million people to improve their health and well-being. The environmental impacts of our own operations continue to reduce, although those associated with the consumer use of our brands are proving much harder to reduce. Meanwhile the number of people whose livelihoods we can enhance is increasing, following the new commitments we made last year.

But progress with our Plan alone is not enough. We are at a turning point in history, a point where we all need to change for human life on the planet to continue to prosper. A new business model with sustainability at its heart is vital for quality of life around the globe to improve. Only the businesses that grasp this will survive. Only those who grow sustainably will thrive.
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Unilever 2004

Chairmen¡¯s introduction

In early 2005, we announced far-reaching changes to the way we run Unilever, in the light of our disappointing financial results. We have adopted a new business model in order to achieve our growth objectives and to increase our competitiveness  so that we can underpin the long-term health and sustainability of the business, which go hand in hand.

Successful business creates benefits for all stakeholders: consumers gain access to quality products that offer real value; business partners in supply and retail prosper; and Unilever employees are rewarded financially, and through the satisfaction of a job well done.

Our new Vitality mission, expressed through our updated Corporate Purpose, commits us to regaining our growth momentum by meeting consumers¡¯ everyday needs for nutrition, hygiene
and personal care with brands that help people feel good, look good and get more out of life.

This report shows that we understand that our long-term success as a business is intimately linked with the vitality of the environment and the communities in which we operate. Increasingly governments, international  agencies, NGOs and individual concerned citizens are calling for wider engagement by companies in tackling the environmental and social challenges we all face.

Through a clear framework and explicit company-wide commitments, we play our part in addressing global challenges. Our local managers are empowered to take appropriate action, working with local stakeholders. The report describes just some of the actions we have taken during 2004, such as:

? strengthening the Vitality benefits of our brands by conducting a nutrition enhancement  programme  across our entire food and beverage portfolio ? around half our products by sales value were screened during the year

? working with our direct ¡®tier one¡¯ suppliers towards positive assurance of adherence to our new Business Partner Code by the end of 2005

? engaging in partnerships in pursuit of shared goals, such as our agreement with UNICEF to achieve a measurable reduction in childhood mortality, one of the UN Millennium Development Goals.

As expectations for wider engagement by companies grow, so too are critics more ready to say when we don¡¯t meet their expectations. We welcome honest feedback on how we are doing as we listen, learn and make progress on our social performance.

Thank you for your interest.

Antony Burgmans Patrick Cescau 
Chairmen of Unilever

----------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Supplementary Information 

Welcome to the Unilever Social Report 2004. Here we provide an update on the progress we are making to achieve our corporate responsibility goals: to manage and grow our business successfully around the world as a trusted corporate citizen, respected for the values and standards by which we behave.

OUR MISSION
In 2004, as we ended our previous five-year Path to Growth programme, we announced a new mission to take Unilever into the next phase of our development. Called ¡®Adding Vitality to life¡¯, it encompasses our brands, our culture and our commitments to society and the environment, uniting what we do as a business with the people who use our products and what they care about. We have updated our long- standing Corporate Purpose to include this new Vitality mission.

¡°Unilever¡¯s mission is to add Vitality to life. We meet everyday needs for nutrition, hygiene and personal care with brands that help people feel good, look good and get more out of life¡¦ To succeed also requires, we believe, the highest standards of corporate behaviour towards everyone we work with, the communities we touch, and the environment on which we have an impact¡¦ This is Unilever¡¯s road to sustainable, profitable growth for our business and long-term value creation for our shareholders,
employees and business partners.¡±

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Unilever 2005

Welcome to Unilever¡¯s Environmental and Social Report for 2005. In this document we describe how we deal with the impact that our business activities are having on the environment and the communities in which we operate around the world.

Unilever¡¯s mission is to add vitality to life. We meet everyday needs for nutrition, hygiene and personal care with brands that help people feel good, look good and get more out of life.

Our aspiration  is to meet these needs in a sustainable way. Our efforts are guided by our Code of Business Principles which sets the standards of behaviour we demand from all our employees. It is against these standards that, as a company, we expect to be judged.

For Unilever, 2005 was a challenging year. Our single-minded focus was to make the company more competitive and return it to growth. This involved a fundamental change to our system of governance, a reorganisation of our internal structures and a reduction in the numbers of senior managers. The impact of these changes gradually made themselves felt during the year and we exited 2005 with good rates of growth and satisfactory levels of profitability.

Improved business performance has not come at the expense of our environmental and social goals. We have continued to make good progress in our drive for eco-efficient manufacturing
and have achieved all the targets that we set ourselves for 2005. We have retained focus on sustainability ? particularly in agriculture.
In addition to our own programmes on tomatoes, tea, peas and spinach, our strong support and leadership of the Roundtable on Sustainable Palm Oil has resulted in the creation of industry-wide guidelines and a membership of 100 organisations.

In the social area, too, we have maintained momentum. The highlights here have been our Nutrition Enhancement Programme where we have improved the nutritional profile of our products  as a response to growing concerns about poor diet and obesity. We have also strengthened our partnership with UNICEF, with whom we are working on ambitious plans to bring improved hygiene and better nutrition to large parts of Asia, Africa and Latin America.

Last but not least, the value of our community giving went up in 2005 to ¢æ79 million (from
¢æ65 million in 2004). Much of this increase resulted from the response of our business to the victims of the Asian Tsunami and Hurricane Katrina.

Clearly there remains much to be done. In October the new executive team reviewed our strategy for corporate responsibility. As one of the outcomes of this, we asked managers working in the areas of the supply chain, environment and sustainability to re-energise their programmes
and set more challenging targets. We also set up a Corporate Responsibility Council to oversee all activities in this area. This will be chaired by an executive board member ? Ralph Kugler.

In future, we intend to integrate our environmental and social activities into our business plans. We want them to become part of our business model and the day-to-day management of our company.

Thank you for taking an interest in this report of the progress we are making. Please tell us what you think ? we welcome your honest feedback.
Antony Burgmans
Chairman 

Patrick Cescau
Group chief executive 

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Unilever 2006

We meet everyday needs for nutrition, hygiene and personal care with brands that help people feel good, look good and get more out of life.

Our aspiration  is to meet these needs in a sustainable way. at the heart of our corporate purpose is the drive to grow sustainably and in this way create long- term value for all those with a stake in the business.

Our efforts are guided by our code of Business principles which sets the standards of behaviour we demand from all our employees. it also outlines our commitments to our stakeholders including consumers, customers, suppliers, employees, communities and the environment.

Our sustainability journey

Over 100 years ago, William hesketh Lever and samuel van den Bergh did not just create the world¡¯s first consumer brands, Sunlight soap and Blue Band margarine:
they built businesses with strong values and a mission to act as agents of social change.

Sustainable development has become the overarching goal for business and government. it demands that we meet the needs of society today without compromising the ability of future generations to survive and prosper.

A commitment to sustainable development and responsible business practice is embedded in our mission and principles. in practice this means understanding the impact we have as a business on society, not only in how we run our own operations, but also in sourcing our raw materials and, crucially, through our brands.

Values-led brands will increasingly drive our business strategy. We are now integrating social, economic and environmental considerations into our brand innovation and product development.

Governance

In 2006 we strengthened our governance in this area. the Board member with responsibility for delivering our commitments is our president of home and personal care. he is a member of our Board¡¯s corporate responsibility and reputation committee which provides oversight and guidance on unilever¡¯s environmental and social impacts and policies.

He also chairs our corporate responsibility council, which includes senior executives from across the business. the council and committee benefit from the input of a panel of external specialists in corporate responsibility.

In this way, we have built strong foundations to fulfil our vitality mission and our commitment to sustainable development.

Unilever is fortunate to have found michael treschow as my successor, who i know has a keen interest in sustainability. i am proud to have served this great company over the last
35 years and am sure it will continue very successfully into the future.

Antony Burgmans
Chairman

----------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Supplementary Information 

Unilever¡¯s mission is to add vitality to life.


Our Vitality Mission and Corporate
Purpose
Our mission is to add Vitality to life. We meet everyday needs for nutrition, hygiene and personal care with brands that help people feel good, look good and get more out of life.
Our deep roots in local cultures and markets around the world give us our strong relationship with consumers and are the foundation for our future growth. We
will bring our wealth of knowledge and international expertise to the service of local consumers ? a truly multi-local multinational.
Our long-term success requires a total commitment to exceptional standards of performance and productivity, to working together effectively, and to a willingness to embrace new ideas and learn continuously.
To succeed also requires, we believe, the highest standards of corporate behaviour towards everyone we work with, the communities we touch, and the environment on which we have an impact.
This is our road to sustainable, profitable growth, creating long-term value for our shareholders, our people, and our business
partners.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Unilever 2007

2007 was a good year for Unilever. Our underlying sales grew by 5.5% ? the third consecutive year of accelerating  sales growth. At the same time, despite rapidly rising commodity costs, we made progress towards achieving our 2010 target for an operating margin in excess of 15%.

Throughout the year we have sought to live up to our long-standing commitment to sustainability and responsible business practice.

Our strategy
Our Vitality mission sets out our goal to meet the everyday needs of people all around the world for nutrition, hygiene and personal care.

Our corporate responsibility strategy seeks to address Unilever¡¯s most significant sustainability impacts ? greenhouse gases, water, packaging and agriculture.

While we have made good progress under all these headings in 2007, the highlight has been agriculture.

Our commitment to sustainable tea Over two-thirds of Unilever¡¯s raw materials come from agriculture and we have been working with suppliers for more than a decade on more sustainable farming practices. Building on this work we have committed ourselves to source all our tea from sustainable sources by 2015.

Since Unilever buys 12% of the world¡¯s black tea crop from 7,500 estates, spread across three continents, this is a massive undertaking. We reached an important milestone in the early part of 2008 with the appearance of PG Tips and Lipton tea in Western Europe using Rainforest Alliance Certified¢â tea. We are confident that this initiative will improve the livelihoods of some 2 million people in our extended supply chain. We also believe that we will sell more tea.

Integrating sustainability
The example of tea illustrates well our new approach to sustainability. What we are seeking to do is to integrate all our sustainability initiatives into the day-to-day marketing and R&D plans of our brands. Sustainability in Unilever is not something that is done by a few boffins in our laboratories. It is very much part of the way we do business and is the responsibility of everyone.

Our experience with tea also exemplifies two other aspects of our approach. The first is the importance of working with external partners who bring new perspectives and new knowledge. The Rainforest Alliance is just one of many bodies with whom we work. Others  include  UNICEF on hygiene education and clean drinking water, Greenpeace on climate-friendly refrigeration, the Fairtrade Labelling Organisation on ethical trading and poverty relief, and Oxfam on poverty.

A value  chain approach
The second distinguishing  feature of our approach  is the growing importance of addressing sustainability right across our value chain ? from the sourcing of raw materials through to consumer use and disposal of our products. Water is a case in point. Historically our programmes have focused on the volume of water used in our factories ? a figure which we have reduced by more than half over the past decade. However, because a big part of our water footprint is in consumer use of our brands, our product developers are increasingly focusing their attention on reducing the quantities of water that are required to use our products. Building on the success of
Surf Excel Quick Wash laundry detergent, this has led to innovations  such as Comfort and Vivere fabric softeners ? both of which allow people to do their laundry with significantly  less water.

In Unilever we recognise that we can only achieve our long-term business objectives if we find more sustainable ways of conducting our affairs. We have known for a long time that good environmental  practice is good for the bottom line ? since it tends to drive out waste and reduce costs. The more we learn about sustainability, the more we are convinced that it is the right thing for all our stakeholders ? the people we employ, our investors, our suppliers and the consumers and communities that we serve.

We are convinced that we can do well for our shareholders, by doing good in the world in which we operate.

Patrick Cescau
Group Chief Executive

----------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Supplementary Information 

Unilever¡¯s mission is to add Vitality to life and to do this in a sustainable way.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Unilever 2008

Our mission
Unilever¡¯s mission is to meet the everyday needs of people all around the world for nutrition, hygiene and personal care. We do this with products that help people feel good, look good and get more out of life.
Every day around 160 million people in 150 countries will buy a Unilever brand. Unsurprisingly, therefore, the social and environmental impacts which we have on the world around us come largely from our brands. We are increasingly embedding sustainability thinking into the day-to-day activities of our brand management and R&D teams. We have done this through a simple tool called Brand Imprint.

Brand Imprint forces management to think carefully about both the resources they use (such as water, packaging, energy and raw materials) and the social and economic impacts that our brands have in the countries where they are sold. For example, it encourages managers selling soap to consider the positive effects which they can have on public health through improved hygiene. For those marketing tea, it prompts them to think about where they source their ingredients and how they can get value from communicating this to consumers.

Our achievements
We are making progress. Around half the tea used in Lipton Yellow Label and PG Tips tea bags in Western Europe is now sourced from Rainforest Alliance Certified¢â farms.
In an effort to halt deforestation we have committed to draw all of our palm oil from sustainable sources by 2015. Our Lifebuoy brand has reached 120 million people in India with its education programme about the importance of washing hands with soap. Many other examples are referenced in this Overview.
To achieve these goals we have to work in partnership with others. For example, we work with the Rainforest Alliance on tea, Greenpeace on palm oil and UNICEF on handwashing. These collaborations are bringing new insights and new thinking into the business.

The business case
What we are learning  is that operating in this way is bringing us hard business benefits. Our quest to run the company more sustainably is fuelling our innovation pipeline, delivering cost savings and helping us to ¡®win¡¯ with our retail and food service customers who have sustainability programmes of their own and who want to work jointly with us. Above all, it is winning the hearts (and wallets) of the growing numbers of consumers who want to be reassured that companies from whom they are buying their products are sourcing, manufacturing and marketing them in a responsible and ethical fashion.

Much of this thinking was already well embedded in Unilever when I took over in January 2009. My predecessor Patrick Cescau deserves great credit for the impetus he gave to it. It is my intention to build on Unilever¡¯s leadership in this area.

In these uncertain economic times, our core values and commitment to sustainability must remain unchanged. Indeed, now more than ever, this agenda holds the potential for the long-term and sustainable success of our business and our brands.
I sincerely believe that businesses like Unilever can be a positive force for good in the world and that such an approach  is in the interests of all our stakeholders ? our investors, our consumers and customers, our employees and the communities where we operate.


Paul Polman
Chief Executive Officer

----------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Supplementary Information 

As one of the world¡¯s leading consumer goods companies, it is through our brands that Unilever has the biggest potential to make a difference.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Unilever 2009

A new vision
2009 saw the launch of a new vision for Unilever ? to double the size of the company while reducing our overall impact on the environment. The commitment presents Unilever with a major challenge. The reduction we are talking about is an absolute one. It incorporates all our impacts right across the value chain ? from the sourcing of our raw materials through to consumer use and disposal of our products.
In short, we intend to decouple growth from environmental impact.

The starting point
Where do we start in addressing such a challenge?
First, we have to put our own house in order. And we are. Over the last 15 years the company has significantly improved the eco-efficiency of its network of factories. CO2 from energy has gone down by 41%*, water by 65%* and total waste by 73%* per tonne of production. We recognise that we have more to do and have the plans to get there.

Working across the value chain
Unilever¡¯s biggest impacts do not come from its own operations. Our 264 factories account for only a small proportion of our emissions. Our biggest effects on the world around us come from the sourcing of raw materials at one end of the value chain and consumer use of our products at the other.

These are issues which we cannot tackle alone. Together with NGOs, customers and other partner organisations we have programmes and commitments in place to address them at each stage of the value chain.

As a food company half our raw materials come from agriculture and forestry. Our ambition is to purchase all our key crops from sustainable sources. We have already taken the lead in many areas. In palm oil, we have bought GreenPalm certificates covering 15% of our volumes. And as a founder member of the Roundtable on Sustainable Palm Oil (RSPO) we are helping to move the industry to sustainable palm oil. We have set our own target to be 100% sustainably sourced by 2015.

It is a similar story in tea. Around 15% of our global volumes of tea now comes from certified sustainable sources. Commitments like these not only help the environment, but also have a positive impact on the lives of millions of people. In Kenya alone, 38,000 smallholder tea farmers have achieved Rainforest Alliance certification. Again, our target is to be fully sourced with sustainable tea for our Lipton tea bags by 2015.

In ice cream the challenge is different. Here the task is to move to climate-friendly HC refrigerants in the point-of-sale freezer cabinets that we own around the world.
Ultimately, however, we will not achieve our environmental goals without persuading consumers to change their behaviour. For many of our products consumers generate around 70% of the environmental impact. Laundry detergents are a case in point.
The temperature and cycle at which the wash is done have a huge impact on the energy and water used. The Cleaner Planet Plan, which is being rolled out across our Omo, Persil and Surf brands, is a behaviour change programme that educates consumers on how to do their washing in a resource- efficient fashion.

Tackling social as well as environmental issues
On the social dimension we are also making progress. Lifebuoy¡¯s programme to teach children and their families about the importance of handwashing has reached over 133 million people since 2002. Ben and Jerry¡¯s has announced that it will go Fairtrade. In India our Shakti distribution network now employs 45,000 women. They are not only making our products more accessible to some of the 800 million people who live in Indian villages but they provide a livelihood, dignity and respect to many families along the way.

Shared value
This way of working, which has been described as ¡®shared value creation¡¯, has been at the heart of Unilever¡¯s approach since the inception of the business. Today, we are applying it to the challenges of the early 21st century: climate change, water scarcity, poverty alleviation and malnutrition to name but a few.
Of course we have had our share of setbacks with which we have had to deal. Whether these were issues with contract labour in Pakistan or accusations levelled against some of our palm oil suppliers, we have tried to respond to these criticisms quickly and transparently.

We report on these matters in this document. We hope that it provides a balanced account of how Unilever is addressing the central issue facing companies everywhere ? namely how
to grow in a genuinely sustainable manner.


Paul Polman
Chief Executive Officer

----------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Supplementary Information 

2009 was a good year for Unilever. Despite difficult economic conditions our growth momentum was strong and we laid many of the foundations needed for the long term. At the same time we continued to serve billions of consumers across the world with products and innovations that help them feel good, look good and get more out of life.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Unilever 2010

Our products make small but important differences to the quality of people¡¯s everyday lives.
We have ambitious plans to grow our company.
In fact, we intend to double our sales. This growth will create jobs and income for all those whose livelihoods are linked to our success ? our employees, our suppliers, our customers, our investors and hundreds of thousands of farmers around the world.

Sustainable growth
But growth at any cost is not viable. We have to develop new ways of doing business which will increase the positive social benefits arising from Unilever¡¯s activities while at the same time reducing our environmental impacts. We want to be a sustainable business in every sense of the word.
We do not believe there is a conflict between sustainability and profitable growth. The daily act of making and selling consumer goods drives
economic and social progress. There are billions of people around the world who deserve the better quality of life that everyday products like soap, shampoo and tea can provide.

Creating a better future
Our vision is to create a better future in which people can improve their quality of life without increasing their environmental footprint.
Our strategy is to increase our social impacts by ensuring that our products meet the needs of people everywhere for balanced nutrition, good hygiene and the confidence which comes from having clean clothes, clean hair and good skin.
But we recognise that in order to live within the natural limits of the planet we will have to decouple growth from environmental impact.
This starts with our own operations. We will achieve absolute reductions in greenhouse gases (GHGs), water and waste. In particular we will meet the United Nations¡¯ requirement* to reduce GHGs by 50-85% by 2050 in order to limit global temperature rise to two degrees.
However, our impact goes beyond our factory gates. The sourcing of raw materials and the use of our products by the consumer at home have a far larger footprint. We recognise this and so our plan is designed to reduce our impacts across the whole lifecycle of our products. Innovation and technology will be key to achieving these reductions.

The Unilever Sustainable Living Plan 
will result in three significant outcomes by 2020.
1. We will help more than a billion people take action to improve their health and well-being.
2. We will decouple our growth from our environmental impact, achieving absolute reductions across the product lifecycle. Our goal is to halve the environmental footprint of the making and use of our products.
3. We will enhance the livelihoods of hundreds of thousands of people in our supply chain.

Delivering these commitments won¡¯t be easy. To achieve them we will have to work in partnership with governments, NGOs, suppliers and others to address the big challenges which confront us all.
Ultimately we will only succeed if we inspire billions of people around the world to take the small, everyday actions that add up to a big difference ? actions that will enable us all to live more sustainably.

Paul Polman
Chief Executive Officer


How to grow sustainably is the biggest challenge

facing companies everywhere.

Two billion times a day somebody, somewhere, uses a Unilever brand.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Unilever 2011

The great challenge of the 21st century is to provide good standards of living for 7 billion people without depleting the earth¡¯s resources or running up massive levels of public debt. To achieve this, government and business alike will need to find new models of growth which are in both environmental and economic balance.

In the years since 1945 global capitalism has delivered much that is positive. It has lifted hundreds of millions of people out of poverty. It has helped catalyse a second agricultural revolution and, more recently, it has given birth to digital technology which is transforming all our lives.

But capitalism is not a panacea. For those things which we find hard to put a price on ? biodiversity, carbon, natural capital ? the market has failed us. As a result we live in a world where temperatures are rising, natural resources are being depleted, species loss is accelerating and the gap between rich and poor is increasing. This is completely unsustainable.

New Models of Business
Business has to decide what role it wants to play. Does it sit on the sidelines waiting for governments to take action or does it get on the pitch and start addressing these issues?
In Unilever we believe that business must be part of the solution. But to be so, business will have to change. It will have to get off the treadmill of quarterly reporting and operate for the long term.
It will have to see itself as part of society, not separate from it. And it will have to recognise that the needs of citizens and communities carry the same weight as the demands of shareholders.
We believe that in future this will become the only acceptable model of business.
If people feel that the system is unjust and does not work for them, they will rebel against it. And if we continue to consume key inputs like water, food, land and energy without thought as to their long-term sustainability, then none of us will prosper.

The Unilever Sustainable living Plan
Unilever¡¯s future success depends upon being able to decouple our growth from our environmental footprint, while at the same time increasing our positive social impacts. These are the central objectives of the Unilever Sustainable Living Plan which we launched in november 2010.

The Plan will result in three significant outcomes:
- help more than a billion people to improve their health and well-being
- halve the environmental footprint of our products
- Allow us to source 100% of our agricultural raw materials sustainably.

Underpinning these three broad goals are around 60 time-bound targets spanning our social, economic and environmental performance across the value chain ? from the sourcing of raw materials all the way through to the use of our products in the home.

Delivering against our targets
We have made a good start to delivering the Plan. There has been excellent progress in sustainable agricultural sourcing. We have increased the use of renewable energy in our factories, reduced the use of HFc gases in our ice cream cabinets and taken steps to ensure that our food brands have a better nutritional profile.

Much remains to be done. But businesses like ours no longer have a choice. Sustainable, equitable growth is the only acceptable model of growth. It is also a very effective one. Growth and sustainability are not in conflict. There is no inherent contradiction between the two. In fact, in our experience, sustainability drives growth.

That is why we are putting ¡®sustainable living¡¯ at the heart of everything we do.
We have found that once you start looking at product development, sourcing and manufacturing through a sustainability lens, it opens up great opportunities for innovation and cost reduction.

Working in Partnership
But if we achieve our sustainability targets and no one else follows, we will have failed. Because of this we are working with other organisations, such as the consumer Goods Forum, the World Economic Forum, the World Business council for Sustainable Development, nGos and governments, to drive concerted, cross-sector change.

I hope this report will give you a sense of the progress we are making. If you have comments to make or solutions to offer do not hesitate to get in touch with me at: Paul_Polman.Sustainableliving@unilever.com

Paul Polman
Chief Executive officer

----------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Supplementary Information 

How to grow sustainably is the biggest challenge facing companies everywhere.

