-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Dell 2013

For 29 years Dell has been helping our customers bring their dreams to life. That is the
philosophy that guides our business, but it’s also the inspiration behind our commitment to
corporate responsibility.

We are working with governments, NGOs, researchers, private enterprises and our industry
peers to address important societal issues from better health care to a cleaner environment.
We are doing this with our own groundbreaking innovations, and also by providing the
technological power that fuels the big ideas of our customers, partners and team members.
A great example is Project Ophelia, an ultra-compact device we developed that enables users
to transform any capable display into a thin client. These devices, which are about the size of a
USB stick, are extremely energy efficient ? you can run 16 of them on the same energy it takes
to run a compact fluorescent light bulb. And because of their portability and efficiency, we are
exploring ways to deploy them in remote areas of the world to bring education to and expand
horizons for people with limited or no previous access to the power of technology.

We’ve partnered with physicians and researchers to develop a high-performance computing
system that speeds the analysis of pediatric cancer patients’ tumor cells and enables medical
professionals to collaborate virtually in real time. Dell technology and support, combined
with the innovation and expertise of these partners, is making it possible for doctors to begin
administering personalized treatment to children within days of diagnosis instead of months.

In our own operations, we are using technology and social media to mobilize our greatest
philanthropic resource ? our global team. We are helping team members connect directly to
charities through an innovative online community where they can volunteer, give and engage
others in a cause. Last year the Dell team collectively logged more than 700,000 volunteer
hours, almost 70 percent more than the year before and well above our goal.

This report details our recent progress, achievements and steadfast commitment to put our
technology solutions to work where they can do the most good in the world. I’m very proud
of all we’re doing, within Dell and in partnership with others, to power the possible for people
and the planet we all share.
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- HP 2004

Letter from Carly Fiorina

HP is well known for its role in the creation of Silicon Valley as well as the role we have played through the years in pioneering many of the practices that have come to define corporate and social responsibility. HP was among the first companies to provide profit sharing, to match employee charitable contributions, to offer flex-time and to create a corporate code of conduct. As far back as the 1950s, HP was one of the first companies to provide employees with paid time off for community service, and later one of the first to make recycling a fundamental part of our operations. We even helped invent casual Fridays.

In part, we’ve tried to take a larger role in the world because we have always believed that great organizations are defined not simply by their capabilities, but by their character. HP has built a global organization loaded with talent and innovative capability. We believe that it should be used not only for making a profit, but making a difference as well.

We’ve learned a lot through the years about the role corporations can play. We’ve learned that integrating environmentally smart practices across the life of a product ? from design to end-of-life ? can save money while helping to save the Earth.  We’ve learned that financial capital alone is not the greatest asset that companies like HP bring to the developing world today. Rather, it’s human capital ? our knowledge and experience, and our ability to collaborate with a wide range of partners to maximize our impact. Above all, we have learned the power of technology to unlock the great potential of individuals and communities.

We think of global citizenship broadly, as you’ll see in this report. At the same time, we recognize the importance of establishing clear priorities to focus our efforts. Our priori- ties reflect pressing challenges facing the information technology industry: addressing electronic waste, raising global social and environmental supply chain standards and increasing access to information technology.

We made progress in 2003 in each of these areas. We recycled more than 100 million pounds of electronic products and supplies in 2003,  raising our total to a half billion pounds since 1987.  Our goal is to double that to 1 billion pounds by 2007.  This year, we worked with our largest 50 suppliers to improve social and environmental conditions in their manufacturing facilities. We plan to engage a total of 500 suppliers by 2006.  We increased access to technology in 20 countries across five continents through our e-inclusion projects. In this coming year, we will build on what we’ve learned to touch even more people around the world.

We don’t have all the answers, but we do understand that addressing these challenges requires new approaches and collaboration ? across the industry and with multilateral organizations, governments and NGOs. Together, we will continue to define global citizenship and the role of corporations in the 21st century.


Sincerely,

Carleton S. Fiorina
Chairman and Chief Executive Officer
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- HP 2005

Letter from Debra Dunn 

In his memoirs, Dave Packard recalled an industry conference he was invited to address in the 1940s. He took the opportunity to assert his belief that building long-term shareowner value didn’t simply require focusing on making a profit, but making a contribution. That as a business, HP had important responsibilities to its employees, its customers, its suppliers, and to the welfare of society at large, which in turn would help build a stronger company that would help drive financial performance. To his surprise and disappointment, most of the others disagreed with him.

Six and a half decades later, the idea that companies can build shareowner value by striving to make both a profit and a contribution is not just a cornerstone of good corporate citizenship; it is still the foundation of everything we do at HP. Whether it’s upholding high standards of transparency and accountability, vigorously managing our performance in environmental sustainability and human rights, or using technology to provide opportunity in underserved markets, it is our goal to build trust by leaving each community in which we do business better for our presence.

Some see this work as charity, philanthropy, or an allocation of resources that could better be donated by shareowners themselves. But to us, it is a vital investment in our future, essential to our top-line and bottom-line business success. What we have learned over time is that the work we are doing around the world to advance social and economic development and environmental sustainability is not separate from our long-term business goals, but fundamental to them. In the 21st Century, global citizenship is not just a corporate responsibility, but also a prime business opportunity to grow our company in new ways.

Last year presented  us with many unique opportunities to demonstrate this connection between our long-term business goals and our commitment to global citizenship. This report documents progress against our priorities established in 2004: addressing electronic waste, raising global supply chain standards and increasing access to information technology in underserved markets.

In 2004, we partnered with leading retailers in the United States and Europe to launch the first free, in-store electronics recycling program, which helped us to recycle more than 120 million pounds of electronic products and supplies during the year. These efforts propelled us towards our goal of recycling 1 billion pounds of electronic products and supplies by the end of 2007.

In 2003, we worked with our largest 50 suppliers to improve social and environmental conditions across our global supply chain. In 2004, we completed assessments with 213 suppliers, far exceeding our goal of 100 suppliers. We also realized that raising social and environmental standards and performance is an industry challenge that requires cooperation, not competition. Thus, working together with numerous suppliers and technology companies?including our principal competitors?we championed the Electronic Industry Code of Conduct.

We increased access to technology in 53 countries across six continents through our e-inclusion and education initiatives. In early 2005, we will announce a new e-inclusion program designed to accelerate enterprise and entrepreneurship, and thereby stimulate economic growth.

Our long-standing commitment to global citizenship began with our founders and has been reinforced by each CEO that has led the company. We are focused on making progress towards our goals, trying new approaches, and collaborating with others committed to environmental and social responsibility. HP remains
committed to making a profit and to making a difference for our shareowners and our global community.

Sincerely,



Debra Dunn
Senior Vice President of Corporate Affairs and Global Citizenship

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- HP 2006

Q. 제가 드린 파일에도 보시다싶이, HP 2006년 보고서가 두개더라고요… 하나는 ‘FY06 Global Citizenship Customer Report’, 또 하나는 ‘2006 Global Citizenship Report’ 인데 어떤 보고서를 택해야 할지 잘 모르겠네요. 확인 부탁드려요~ 


‘2006 Global Citizenship Report’

Letter from Mark Hurd
Chief Executive Officer and President

HP is committed to being a leader on matters of global citizenship. First, we will continue to do our best to protect the environment. Second, we will run our business with the utmost integrity. And third, we will work to improve the lives of the people in the communities in which we operate. In 2005,  HP made some company-wide changes to improve our ability to grow and scale profitably. Keeping HP financially healthy is a fundamental prerequisite to being a valuable global citizen.

In support of protecting the environment, today HP offers recycling programs in over 40 countries. HP has recycled more than 750 million pounds of products and supplies since our recycling program began in 1987.  And, the momentum for these programs is accelerating. In 2005, our overall recycling rate increased by 17 percent over 2004.

HP prides itself on conducting business with integrity. This is core to our company values, because it’s not just what we do that is important, but also how we do it. We take our standards of business conduct policies seriously, and we expect all HP employees to adhere to them. Furthermore, we expect the same ethics, labor practices and operational integrity from every partner and contractor with whom we work around the world.

In the wake of some unprecedented natural disasters, HP employees showed their compassion for their fellow citizens. For example, immediately after the Asian Tsunami and Hurricane Katrina, many Hewlett-Packard employees phys- ically traveled to provide aid; volunteered their time and expertise to get these communities back up and running; and also donated and raised money for relief. HP matched employee contributions dollar for dollar, offered paid time off for volunteering, and donated services and equipment.

As mentioned in 2005, we made some company-wide changes to improve our operations. While these changes are never easy, we have done our best to conduct them with care, integrity and respect. We streamlined HP’s operating model by consolidating some core functions such as human resources, IT, and finance. We announced a reduction of our global workforce by approximately 15,300  people. We folded our commercial sales organization and responsibility for each respective customer segment, directly into the most appropriate business group. We moved accountability for regional  operations closer to our customers in each geography. Our overall objective is to create a more focused company, with clearer accountability and greater financial success.

We at Hewlett-Packard are proud of our global citizenship efforts in 2005 and of our commitment to this important work. And, we will continue to expend every ounce of effort to make sure that we live up to every one of our commitments to our customers, our partners, our employees, our stockholders and the communities in which we operate.


Sincerely,

Chief Executive Officer and President



‘FY06 Global Citizenship Customer Report’

Letter from Mark Hurd
Chairman, Chief Executive Officer and President

HP made solid progress in 2006 toward our goal
of becoming the world’s leading IT company through our aim of simplifying our customers’ experiences with technology and helping them do what they want to do from wherever they are.

Being a leading company starts with strong financial performance. In fiscal 2006,  HP revenue increased 6 percent to $91.7 billion and non-GAAP earnings per share increased 46 percent to $2.38.  And we achieved the most balanced profit mix by business group and region that HP has seen in years.

It also means leading in citizenship. HP has a long-standing commitment to operate with the highest standards of ethics and integrity. Our failure to meet our own principles during an HP investigation into leaks of sensitive company information has led us to redouble our commitment to adhere to our core values, high standards of ethics, privacy and other aspects of global citizenship. To that end, we will continue to build on our legacy of responsible conduct and sound corporate governance across the company and wherever we do business.

The way we see it, global citizenship and business success go hand in hand. In fact, global citizenship is the “hidden component” in HP products?embedded in our design

and engineering, including accessibility, energy efficiency and recycling. It’s also an important part of how we operate our business, from responsible supply chain management to the steps we’re taking to reduce our own environmental footprint. HP’s global citizenship efforts are further reflected in our continued support for the UN Global Compact.

We’re building on a long history of investing in communities around the world and addressing issues of concern to our customers and other stakeholders. Our priorities are supply chain responsibility, energy efficiency and product reuse and recycling. We concentrate on these subjects in this report, which has been developed to show how our global citizenship work helps customers achieve their objectives.


Sincerely,

Mark Hurd
Chairman, Chief Executive Officer and President

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- HP 2007

Letter from Mark Hurd
Chairman, Chief Executive Officer and President

HP’s employees delivered an impressive performance in 2007, and it showed in our results. We surpassed $100 billion in revenue ? a first for a technology company. We grew non- GAAP operating profit dollars 30 percent. And we delivered advanced products and services that helped make our customers ? from consumers to the largest global companies? more cost efficient, more energy efficient and more productive.

As much progress as we’ve made, we still have work to do. We’re not satisfied to be a world class company. We want to be the world leader ? not only in our market and financial performance but in our global citizenship activities as well. HP is keenly aware of our responsibilities as a global citizen. We do business across most countries and markets in the world, and we know that our policies and practices ? from our ethics and governance to energy and the environment ? have an impact far outside the confines of our business. To us, global citizenship is not just an important business initiative; it is a statement of our values, a measure of our commitment to society and the planet we all share, and the foundation for responsible leadership in an increasingly interdependent world. To that end, HP continues to support the UN Global Compact, the world's largest, global corporate citizenship initiative.

Our three global citizenship priorities ? supply chain responsibility, climate and energy, and product reuse and recycling ? are more critical than ever to our business success. These are the areas that reflect growing customer demands and where we can make the greatest contribution.

Supply chain responsibility
We work closely with our suppliers in one of the largest global supply chains in the IT industry to promote improved social and environmental practices, touching the lives of more than 400,000 workers around the world. We ask our suppliers to uphold the same rigorous standards to which we hold ourselves. To support greater accountability and transparency, HP this year is disclosing our list of top tier suppliers. We believe we are the first in our industry to do so.

Climate and energy
Climate change represents one of the most daunting challenges facing our planet. HP is at the forefront of providing products and solutions for an increasingly energy-efficient, low-carbon world. That starts with reducing our own impact on the environment as well as the impact of our products. For example, we are expanding our use of renewable energy, including solar power for our San Diego facility and wind power for several of our facilities in Ireland. And we are designing carbon reduction and energy efficiency into our products and solutions, from the data center to the desktop, mobile devices and digital printing. HP solutions such as Dynamic Smart Cooling can save up to
40% in data center cooling costs.

We are more than two years ahead of schedule in meeting our commitment to cut the combined energy consumption and associated greenhouse gas emissions of HP operations and products to 20 percent below 2005 levels by 2010 ? so we’ve raised our goal to 25 percent. We’re also
researching the development of low-carbon solutions that will help reduce climate impact in other parts of the economy and collaborating with other companies, policy makers and non-governmental organizations to develop effective responses to combat climate change.

Product reuse and recycling
HP has long been a leader in helping companies, organizations and consumers responsibly dispose of IT products and supplies ? part of our effort to enable a simplified technology experience. We are continually working to make our products easier to reuse and recycle, and to incorporate greater volumes of recycled materials in our products. We exceeded the goal that we set for ourselves of recycling a cumulative one billion pounds of electronic products and supplies by the end of 2007. We plan to recover an additional one billion pounds of electronic products and supplies by the end of 2010.

In addition to these priorities, we continue to address other global citizenship areas vital to our business. With the growing challenge to privacy from emerging technologies, HP is pioneering an approach to the protection and responsible use of personal information. This effort goes beyond compliance with the law and our codes of conduct to take into account our values, customer expectations and a range of potential risks.

At the same time, we’re investing in programs that enrich the communities where we work and live around the world. In 2008, we will further align our investments with education, focusing on student achievement and entrepreneurship.

None of our global citizenship success in 2007 would have been possible without the contributions of our 172,000 employees, who provide an endless source of ideas, energy and inspiration. In addition to leading our global citizenship initiatives across the country, their contributions of time, expertise and money (as well as the volunteerism of HP retirees) enrich their local communities.

With our presence around the world and our history of responsible citizenship, HP is in a rare position to help address some of the planet’s most critical challenges ? not alone but in partnership with governments, organizations, companies and individuals. I am confident we will meet these challenges the way we have met others ? with focus, resolve and ingenuity ? to become the global corporate citizen that we aspire to be.

Sincerely,



Mark Hurd
Chairman, CEO and President
HP

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- HP 2008

Q&A with Mark Hurd


How does global citizenship contribute to hp’s success?
Global citizenship helps our success because it’s important to our customers. Customers care about hp’s efforts in areas like climate change and human rights. they also value ways we can help them be more successful. that could mean an energy-efficient data center that cuts costs while reducing their carbon footprint, or a centrally managed printing environment that increases productivity and saves resources. Global citizenship also strengthens our own business in such areas as increasing efficiency, protecting privacy and maintaining trust with our stakeholders.

What were hp’s notable achievements in global citizenship in 2008?
We met or made substantial progress toward nearly all of our global citizenship goals. here are a few achievements that rose to the top: We cut our global greenhouse gas (GhG) emissions from operations 4% compared with 2007 in absolute terms and 13% normalized to revenue. We led our industry in reporting GhG emissions of our first-tier suppliers, representing more than 80% of our total product manufacturing spend. We audited 142 suppliers at 246 facilities for compliance with our code of conduct, and incidences of nonconformance,  such as discrimination practices, have been substantially reduced. additionally, we contributed over $46 million in cash and products to transform education through technology, train entrepreneurs and support communities.

How does global citizenship help hp serve its customers?
I’ll give you an example. We worked with ups on an innovative device that prints labels directly on packages. by eliminating paper labels, it will create millions in operational cost savings and save over 1,200  tonnes of paper a year. additionally,  our asset recovery programs help enterprises responsibly process old it equipment while capturing residual value. beyond environmental initiatives, protecting privacy is another important aspect of global citizenship, and we’ve integrated advanced security technologies across our portfolio. these and other solutions support our strategic commitment to deliver business benefits while helping build a better world.

What roles do hp employees play in supporting global citizenship at hp?
Our employees are the energy behind our global citizenship initiatives; they contribute substantial time, energy and money to help communities. more broadly, they reflect the global scope of our business?our efforts to increase the diversity of our workforce will be a growing source of innovation and strength. With the addition of eds, we’ve grown to more than 300,000 people, and i can’t think of an organization with deeper talent or ability to improve how people live and work.



Mark hurd
Chairman, Ceo and president

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- HP 2009

LETTER FROM CEO MARk HURD

At HP, we are committed to aligning our business goals with our impacts on society and the environ- ment. Global citizenship influences how we run our business, holding us to high standards of integrity, ethics, contribution and accountability in everything we do. Through rigorous internal policies and active engagement with outside stakeholders, we work to ensure that we live up to our ideals.

In 2009,  the global economy experienced the worst recession in a generation. At HP, we set a goal of controlling discretionary spending, while keeping the muscle of the organization intact. Thanks to the hard work and talent of HP employees, we were able to maintain forward progress on our core strategy. That includes our commitment to global citizenship, which we believe becomes even more important in difficult times.

With the expansion of our enterprise services capabil- ities, HP can do more than ever to help our customers build sustainable businesses. We are working in areas such as education, healthcare and energy to harness the power of information, using IT to change the equation and help create a more efficient, environ- mentally responsible and equitable world. And in HP Labs, we’re working on the future. Innovations like nano-scale sensors, breakthrough software for analyt- ics and knowledge discovery, and data centers with net-zero environmental impact will be the building blocks of tomorrow’s sustainable society.

We are also improving HP’s own products and operations. Last year, we announced that by the end of 2011, we will reduce the energy consumption and associated greenhouse gas emissions of all HP products combined by 40 percent compared to 2005 levels. We are leveraging the power of our supply chain to protect both the environment and human rights. And through HP’s Office of Global Social Inno- vation, we are developing new ideas and approaches for education and healthcare delivery. Around the world, our efforts are supported by HP employees who volunteer in their local communities and donate in conjunction with HP matching grants to the causes they care about most. At HP, we also recognize that these issues are bigger than any single organiza-
tion can address on its own, so we support the UN Global Compact to promote higher standards and we cultivate partnerships with industry peers, governments and NGOs to achieve our shared objectives.

Together, these coordinated initiatives have helped put HP at the forefront of global citizenship. Corpo- rate Responsibility Magazine recently recognized our efforts with the no. 1 ranking in the annual 100 Best Corporate Citizens List and Newsweek ranked HP as the greenest company among the 500 largest corporations in America.

In the years ahead, we are well positioned to lead the evolution of our industry and create extraordinary opportunities for our customers, our stockholders, our people and the world around us.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- HP 2010

They are also at the heart of an obligation we all share to help create a sustainable global society. I look forward to helping advance HP’s commitment to making a positive difference in the world through our people; our portfolio of products, services and expertise; and our partnerships.

Our workforce of nearly 325,000 talented people is our greatest asset. Through their commitment, HP achieves extraordinary results both in our business and in our communities. With their expertise and innovative drive, we’re pursuing a vision of corporate success that goes beyond just creating value for shareholders?we are helping to create a better world.

We’re also using our position as the world’s largest information technology (IT) company to address some of society’s most pressing challenges. Our strategy is to
use our portfolio and expertise to tackle complex issues? such as improving energy efficiency, enhancing the quality and accessibility of education, and making healthcare more affordable, accessible, and effective. We approach these issues in a holistic way, stretching beyond quick fixes and piecemeal solutions.

We recognize that these problems are too big for any single organization to address alone, so we’re teaming up with partners worldwide to find solutions. We cultivate relationships with diverse stakeholders,  such as industry peers, governments, and nongovernmental organizations (NGOs). And to promote higher standards across sectors, we endorse the UN Global Compact.

Throughout this report, you’ll see numerous examples of how HP works with partners to solve tough problems. For instance, the HP Catalyst Initiative is tearing down obstacles that prevent students from learning science, technology, engineering, and math (STEM) by bringing together the world’s best educators to devise new ways of teaching. Through our partnership with the Clinton Health Access Initiative (CHAI), we’re helping to reduce AIDS fatalities by bringing technology and healthcare together in innovative ways. And we’re helping companies decrease their environmental impact through HP Energy and Sustainability Management (ESM), a portfolio of services that enable companies to better manage their use of energy and other natural resources.

Looking back at the milestones we reached in 2010,  I’m proud of HP and our employees. HP’s accomplishments span many areas, reflecting the breadth of our business and global scale of our operations. As we look forward, it’s more important than ever for us to maintain our momentum, because the challenges we face?and the opportunities before us?have never been greater.



L?o  Apoth eker 
president and chief executive officer

---------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Supplementary Information 

Hewlett-Packard is a company with a history of strong global citizenship. Social and environmental responsibility are essential to our business strategy and our value proposition for customers.
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- HP 2011

Letter from CEO
Meg Whitman

Welcome to the HP Global Citizenship  Report.

This is HP’s annual scorecard for areas like sustainability, social innovation, employment practices, and ethics and compliance, but really, we look at it as a scorecard on our values. The principles of global citizenship have been core to HP’s success for more than 70 years. We apply the power of our technology, partnerships, and the expertise of more than
300,000 employees to have a positive impact on society and the world.

For example, we’re helping improve world health through drug authentication  and by acceler- ating the diagnosis of HIV in infants. We’re helping improve world education through the HP Catalyst Initiative, which brings together some of the best educators to devise new ways of engaging students in science, technology, engineering, and math. We’re helping improve world working and living standards through the power and leverage of our supply chain. We’re helping make the world greener by continuing to meet and exceed our industry-leading goals for reducing the environmental impact of our operations and products, and by helping our customers reduce their environmental impact. We’re also helping get the world involved with HP employees and retirees volunteering more than 744,000 hours of their energy and exper- tise last year.

As the industry’s largest provider of information technology infrastructure, software, services, and solutions, we know that we can help advance the way people live and work. We also recognize that the world’s challenges are too big for any single organization to address alone, so we’re teaming up with partners worldwide to find solutions. We cultivate relationships with diverse stakeholders, such as social entrepreneurs, industry peers, governments, and nongovernmental organizations. In addition, to promote higher standards across sectors, we endorse the UN Global Compact.

In the Global Citizenship Report, you’ll learn about these stories, programs, policies, and many more. We believe that good citizenship and good business go hand in hand. A reputation  as a responsible corporate citizen is a competitive advantage that supports our customer relation- ships, our employee commitment and our shareholder value.

I hope you enjoy this year’s report and I look forward to continuing HP’s important work that
makes a real difference in the world. 


Best,

Meg

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- HP 2012

Our founders, Bill and Dave, first put Global Citizenship on the list of HP’s corporate objectives in 1957. And we still know today that being a good corporate citizen is integral to our innovation and performance. It is central to our corporate purpose of advancing the way people live and work.

The world is facing many challenges: climate change and rising energy costs, the need for economic development and social equality, and increasing information security and privacy concerns?just to name a few.

HP is leading the way with a strong commitment to providing solutions for our customers that address business issues in ways that can also positively impact society and the planet.
We’ve made great progress in 2012.

We launched the first commercialized product from our Project Moonshot, which will truly revolutionize the data center with an entirely new category of server. We expect it to consume up to 89% less energy and 80% less space at 77% less cost, and I am confident it will be an extreme improvement over anything else on the market.

We also launched new responsible supplier guidelines for student and dispatch workers in China. This is an industry-first initiative that protects high-risk workers and promotes responsible labor practices. This initiative is part of HP’s larger commitment to ensuring that our suppliers meet high ethical standards and treat our extended workforce with dignity and respect, reducing turnover and supporting product quality.

This past year, we also published our complete carbon footprint, a measure of our environmental impact as a corporation. This includes the footprint of our extended supply chain, our own operations, and the footprint of our products and services in use. This is another first in
the IT industry.

The saying goes that you can’t manage what you can’t measure, and we can now measure our complete carbon footprint. This insight allows us to commit to new goals like reducing the carbon dioxide emissions of our operations by another 20% by 2020. Achieving this goal will help lower HP’s operating costs and energy-price risk, providing business benefits as well as environmental benefits.

In our Global Citizenship Report, you’ll learn about these examples and many others. In addition, to promote higher standards across the areas of human rights, labor, environment, and anticorruption, we endorse the United Nations Global Compact as a practical framework for the development, implementation, and disclosure of sustainability policies and practices.

The contributions we make to benefit people, communities, and the planet also create value for HP, our employees, our customers, and our shareholders.

It’s not just good values, it’s good business?and that means a path to sustainable growth.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- HP 2013

This year, as HP celebrates its 75th anniversary, we launched a framework for thinking about how we do business called HP Living Progress. This new framework builds on our commitment to global citizenship, which has been one of our corporate objectives for nearly six decades.

Here at HP, we are committed to advancing the overall health and well-being of people, helping businesses and economies thrive, and strengthening the environment. It’s this focus on balancing all three elements of human, economic, and environmental progress that enables us to
create true Living Progress.

Highlights in 2013

HP is at the forefront of innovation to limit the carbon impact of the information and communications technology industry, which is currently projected to increase from 1.9% of total greenhouse gas emissions in 2011 to 2.3% in 2020.1 As of December 2013, more than 50% of all
LEED® Platinum- and LEED Gold-certified new construction data centers worldwide were designed by HP,2 and our current generation of ProLiant Gen8 and Moonshot servers offers increased processing power while using significantly less energy and space. And after publishing
our comprehensive carbon footprint analysis last year, we’ve raised the bar again by sharing our comprehensive water footprint this year.

In our supply chain, we announced guidance for the fair treatment of student and dispatch workers and followed up with targeted supplier training and assessments. We also continued to push hard on responsible mineral sourcing, driving smelters in our supply chain towards conflict free certification and supporting initiatives to establish viable sources of conflict free minerals in the Democratic Republic of Congo and neighboring countries. 

Working in collaboration with Conservation International, we created HP Earth Insights, a unique early warning system for threatened species using the power of our big data solutions. And in India, more than 28,000 people have already received access to quality medical care through eHealth Centers, powerful cloud-enabled healthcare solutions that serve residents in remote areas. 

Our promise

Together with our customers and partners, and with Living Progress as our framework, we promise to bring together our people and technology to help solve society’s toughest challenges. And we promise to consider human, economic, and environmental impact as we develop our products, services, and solutions, manage our operations and supply chain, and drive interactions with our customers, partners, and communities.

We look forward to updating you on our progress throughout the year.
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Intel 2004

I held a lot of frank conversations  with our employees, and they engaged in our Intel practice of constructive  confron- tation by communicating very directly with me.
We took a hard look at ourselves through a formal self-assessment process and determined that we needed to take several steps. We must improve our understanding  of what Intel Values and culture mean, and all of our employees must clearly understand the company’s  priorities and expec- tations. To accomplish  this, we developed a new Managing for Excellence program to foster both upward and downward communication.
Intel business groups will be using this self-assessment as part of our quality management program. I believe that this will result in faster and more accurate information flow throughout  the company, a better understanding  of priorities among all employees and timely decision-making. These changes are not a “one-time  thing”; they will be a permanent part of Intel’s business processes, now and in the future.

Comprehensive view of corporate responsibility One thing hasn’t changed: our goal to model corporate responsibility  in all of our actions and communications.
As our competitors,  stakeholders and employees continually raise the bar for performance,  achieving excellence in corporate responsibility  means more than publishing a report once a year.
Our vision and strategy are to drive increasing sustainability, taking into account not only economic but also environmental, community and workplace performance. Corporate responsi- bility is simply good management; it’s not extra or superfluous. It needs to be embedded in the way we do business?in human resources; public affairs; purchasing; quality; investor relations; legal; environment, health and safety; and every other aspect of our corporate life. Corporate responsibility  is firmly anchored in Intel Values and is integrated into our Corporate Business Principles.

Intel Values are  the  constant 2005 will be both a year of transition and a year of continuity. In addition to the business transitions I’ve mentioned, we will see some significant leadership transitions. As of May, I will move from CEO to Chairman of the Board. Andy Grove will no longer serve on our Board, but will assume the role of senior advisor to the Board and to senior management. Paul Otellini will move into the role of CEO.
These types of transitions at Intel are executed with fore- thought and planning. Among the three of us, we have nearly 100 years of experience at this company. In times of transition, we look to our values as the bedrock of our decision-making. Our stakeholders see the external signs of transition: growth in emerging markets and product transitions. But they should also see the continuity and constancy of our focus on corporate responsibility,  which is illustrated by the content of this global corporate citizenship report.
A company’s  social responsibility  profile would require an endless list of ingredients. To make our reporting more useful to our readers, we try to prioritize content based on the impact that these issues have on our society and the communities  in which we operate.

Carrying our focus forward
We continue to focus our energies on improving our environ- mental and safety performance.  While we have achieved notable successes in water use, waste recycling, employee 
safety and wellness, and building waste reduction goals into new manufacturing technologies, challenges remain in reducing air emissions and energy use.
We have brought our passion, technical savvy and experience to the task of improving education and fostering relationships worldwide  with educators, governments and communities. Our education programs are now available in more than 50 countries, and in 2005, we will expand that reach by beginning initiatives in several new places around the world.
Our employees have tapped their knowledge and energy by getting involved, helping to solve problems and bringing benefits to the communities  where they live and work.
On the policy and governance front, we have worked with several other technology companies to create and endorse a code of conduct  for the electronics industry supply chain. Perhaps most importantly,  we’ve established accountability for corporate responsibility  performance and reporting at the Board of Directors. We will discuss these subjects and more in this report.
We also face challenges. Upholding our culture, principles and expectations  as we continue to serve growing markets in emerging economies takes diligent focus. Environmental and workplace safety performance is never just “good  enough.” Intel stakeholders insist that we do more than mind our own operations. They want us to help improve their communities, enhance their competitiveness  and share our strengths to help them be more productive.
Many of the issues we work through with our stakeholders are complex and require continued focus year after year. For example, in 2004, we were involved in dialogues on topics ranging from supplier performance and lobbying strategy to energy and water use. I’m confident  that during my transition to Intel’s Chairman of the Board and Paul’s transition to CEO, our commitment  to excellence in corporate responsibility  will remain. I’ve enjoyed the opportunity  to see this discipline mature, and will continue to monitor our performance in my new role as Chairman.
This is Intel’s fourth Global Citizenship Report. In what follows, we attempt to offer a balanced and reasonable presentation of our organization’s  economic,  environmental and social performance in 2004, and outline our priorities for the future. We continue to publish this report in accordance with the Global Reporting Initiative* (GRI) 2002 Sustainability Reporting Guidelines, and will do so in the future.
In these pages, you will find a summary of our actions, initiatives, focus areas and performance data for 2004?an annual account of our performance as a global corporate citizen. I hope you will also sense a progression: building on past successes but always finding new challenges to work on as we go forward. 2004 had its high points and its challenges. The final week of the year brought tragedy to the Indian Ocean countries unlike anything witnessed previously. We can’t predict everything we will face in 2005, but we do know that by staying true to our Intel Values, we will tackle those challenges as we have in the past?with an eye on the future.

I am proud of the way our employees have focused on helping Intel rebound during this trying year, and helping their communities become better places to live and work. We are prepared for the challenges ahead.


Craig  R. Barrett
Chief Executive Officer

----------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Supplementary Information 

Continuity and Progress

2004 was a year of ups and downs for Intel and our industry. We had many successes, but also some fairly public product challenges. We took the time and effort in 2004 to refocus on our long-standing Intel Values and how they relate to our company’s operational excellence.

Intel employees apply  their education, skills and experience to develop the  next generation of technologies.

We work to improve educational opportunities and increase access to technology worldwide.

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Intel 2005

De?ning  Corporate Responsibility

After taking a hard look at what we believe in, we con?rmed that at Intel, corporate responsibility means achieving business success in ways that honor our ethical values and demonstrate respect for people and the planet. Our actions follow certain guiding principles:

?   Operate with integrity and transparency

?   Strengthen our communities

?   Improve people’s lives through technology

We also clari?ed the way we communicate both our commitment and
our performance.  In transitioning from the previous title of Global Citizen- ship Report to Corporate Responsibility Report, we better re?ect both our approach to business and the way we interact with our many stakeholders around the world.

Our dialogues with stakeholders also offered important feedback on the way we approach the report’s format. As a result of their input, we dove deeper in many content areas by expanding our report information online. This year, our report focuses on three areas most material to Intel’s corporate responsibility efforts: the environment, education and community.

Environment. Environmental excellence has long been a hallmark in Intel’s leading-edge manufactur- ing and assembly facilities worldwide. We have made progress in reducing our environmental footprint in both our operations and our products.  In our operations, we reduced our emissions of per?uorocom- pounds (climate change gases) by 13% in 2005 and reduced our energy consumption per production unit by 15%. We design products with the environment in mind throughout the product life cycle.


We are bringing new energy-ef?cient technologies to market and are helping drive environmentally responsible end-of-life solutions for electronics.

Education. Education has been the cornerstone of our strategic global philanthropic efforts since Intel was founded. Since that time, we have invested more than $1 billion worldwide. We believe that educa- tion is critical to inspire creativity and innovation. Working with educators, governments and industry,
we design and deliver innovative and unique programs in more than 50 countries on six continents. Our efforts in education grow stronger each year. In 2005, we again contributed more than $100 million to improve education and provide technology access worldwide.

Community. Intel employees worldwide demonstrate a passion for community involvement. We view community leadership as our responsibility, and as a critical component of our global business success. From giving back through local volunteer efforts to our relief work following the tsunami in Southeast Asia, Hurricane Katrina in the U.S., the earthquake in Pakistan, and Hurricane Stan in Mexico and Central America, we reinforce our community commitment every day. In 2005, more than 30,000 Intel employees from around the world committed their time to make their communities better places to live and work.

In addition to these focus areas, this report details the full scope of our corporate responsibility efforts, from employee development and diversity to governance, ethics and supply-chain responsibility. We attempt to offer a balanced presentation of our organization’s economic, environmental and social perfor- mance in 2005, and outline our priorities for the future. We continue to publish the report in accordance with the Global Reporting Initiative* (GRI) 2002 Sustainability Reporting Guidelines.

Corporate responsibility is about good management and a commitment to doing things right. We trust that you will see ongoing progress in our performance and recognize the commitment that all of our employees have to facing future challenges head on.


Paul S. Otellini
President and Chief Executive Of?cer


Craig R. Barrett
Chairman of the Board

----------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Supplementary Information 

2005 was a year of signi?cant change for Intel. In addition to evolving our business strategy and reinvigorating our brand, we have taken a more focused approach to corporate responsibility. We have worked to more clearly de?ne what corporate responsibility means to Intel, and we met with stakeholders in formal and informal feedback sessions to clarify the key corporate responsibility issues for the company.

‘Leap ahead’
A New Focus
For us, corporate responsibility means a further opportunity to challenge, inspire, enrich and enable. We are driven to make a difference in the areas of environ- ment, education and community. We look for concrete ways to lead others to new and better ways to live and work.

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Intel 2006

Executive Perspective

I am writing to you from the vantage point of a company that is approach- ing 40 years  of existence in the often turbulent and always exciting world of technology. The world has changed greatly in the past four decades, and if you look closely at those changes, you will often ?nd Intel’s ?agship product, the microprocessor, at the center. That one innovation has expanded human possibilities and helped make our
world a better place to live.
For proof, look no further than our most recent business success, the Intel® Core™2 Duo proces- sor. It and more than 40 recently introduced microprocessors based on a new Intel architecture offer record-breaking performance while consuming less energy. The Intel Core 2 Duo processor is an example of an Intel win-win situation?we do well while we do good.

In the same vein, we continue to strive for excellence in our operations. In our factories, we have reduced  normalized energy  consumption by more than 20% over the last three years  and are on track to meet our goal of reducing normalized climate change emissions by 50% by 2010 compared to our 2002 baseline. In many communities around the world, we open our doors to our neighbors so they know that they live near a safe manufacturing facility that is creating cutting- edge technology.

We’ve learned that success  in our industry can be enhanced by sharing many of our best prac- tices with our customers and suppliers. We expect our many suppliers to maintain high standards when it comes to safe, lawful, and environmentally progressive operations. Intel established formal expectations for suppliers in 1998, and in 2004 we adopted the Electronics Industry Code of Conduct, which outlines a consistent approach for supplier performance in many areas.

Our community efforts focus on projects that combine Intel’s technical expertise, employee energy, and business acumen to help make communities stronger and bring technology access to under-served populations. Intel employees volunteer hundreds  of thousands of hours each year in places like Intel Computer Clubhouses, the Intel International Science and Engineering Fair, and local schools.

In this report, you will see the full scope of our corporate responsibility efforts, from employee development and diversity to governance, ethics, and stakeholder engagement. We attempt to offer a balanced presentation of our organization’s economic, environmental, and social perfor- mance in 2006, and outline our priorities for the future. We continue to publish the report in accordance  with the Global Reporting Initiative* (GRI) 2002 Sustainability Reporting Guidelines.

Intel is always in motion, fueling an industry that never rests. In 2006, we implemented our most comprehensive restructuring in over 20 years, resulting in a stronger, more competitive company. The skills and dedication of our employees to our mission and values have brought us nearly four decades of success. Continuing our commitment to the highest performance in all we do?from product innovation to corporate responsibility?is good business. By honoring our ethical values and demonstrating respect for people and the environment, we achieve ?nancial success, provide great opportunities, and attract good people to work with us. We look forward to another successful and responsible year.

Paul S. Otellini
President and Chief Executive Of?cer

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Supplementary Information 

Continuing our commitment to the highest performance in all we do? from product innovation to corporate responsibility?is good  business.

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Intel 2007

Executive Perspective

In 2008, we will celebrate Intel’s 40th anniversary. Over that 40-year span, our company’s products have enabled some of the most important human innovations. Today, our microprocessors are at the heart of an ever expanding digital world? allowing people to connect in amazing new ways and to achieve previously unimagined gains in productivity.

Corporate responsibility is an essential ingredient in how we do business. It has been critical to our success in the past and will continue to be so in the future. It’s fundamentally about doing the right things the right way?from setting high ethical expectations for our employees and suppliers, to providing a progressive and inclusive workplace, to delivering products that can change the world.

We have long focused on reducing our emissions, recycling waste, conserving water, and designing products with the environment in mind. Intel chips are made of silicon, the principal ingredient in beach sand. I’ve outlined a long-term vision for Intel that I’ve termed “Sand to Sand,” a decision-making framework that embodies the concept of sustainability and gives us ongoing motivation to make the right choices for the environment.

While our core focus areas of product innovation, environmental responsibility, educational advancement, community investment, and business integrity remain constant, 2007 brought some exceptional results. We brought to the market our strongest product portfolio in years. Our new product lines enable the most energy-efficient solutions to date and low-cost options for first-time computer users, especially in emerging markets.

We started producing our new 45nm products using a lead- free process and laid plans to move to halogen-free packaging technology in 2008. Our products are built in some of the most advanced manufacturing facilities on the planet. Fab 32 in Arizona, which started production in 2007, will be our first factory to be certified as a Green Building under  new LEED criteria being developed for facilities of this kind.

Intel’s education efforts achieved new milestones in 2007 as well. We continued to collaborate with educators and govern- ments worldwide to advance 21st century education and to prepare young people for success. Since 1998, the Intel® Teach Program has been helping teachers be more effective educators and better integrate technology into the classroom. In 2007, we trained more than 1.1 million teachers and surpassed the mark of training 5 million teachers worldwide.

Intel has received a lot of recognition this past year for our CSR leadership. I believe that with leadership comes responsibility. Society and business continue to struggle with complex chal- lenges?from addressing environmental sustainability and climate change to providing quality education and technology access to children and communities around the world. I’m committed to viewing these challenges as future business opportunities and areas where Intel can contribute and collaborate with others in a meaningful way.

In this report, prepared using the Global Reporting Initiative’s G3 guidelines, you will see the full scope of our corporate responsi- bility efforts. We attempt to offer a balanced presentation of our organization’s economic, environmental, and social performance in 2007, and outline our priorities for the future.

For Intel’s 40th anniversary year, I’ve challenged our employees worldwide to continue to build on our strong culture of volunteer- ism and donate one million hours of service in our communities. This is the most direct way that we can thank the communities that have welcomed Intel as a neighbor over the past 40 years. In addition, we will be matching volunteer hours at both local schools and nonprofit organizations with cash grants from the Intel Foundation.

I’m extremely proud of our employees, and as we work together throughout 2008, I’m confident that they will continue to carry on Intel’s commitment to deliver the best technology while being one of the world’s leading corporate citizens.



Paul S. Otellini
President and Chief Executive Officer
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Intel 2008

Our commitment to corporate responsibility is unwavering, even during economic downturns. Taking a proactive, integrated approach to managing our impact on local communities and the environment not only benefits people and our planet, but is good for our business. Making corporate responsibility an integral part of Intel’s strategy helps us mitigate risk, build strong relationships with our stakeholders, and expand our market opportunities.

While I am proud of the many recognitions that we have received?including our number
one spot on Corporate Responsibility Officer magazine’s 100 Best Corporate Citizens list for
2008?we continue to push ourselves to do more. For over a decade, we have set formal goals
in our primary corporate responsibility focus areas, helping to drive accountability and continuous improvement.  In 2008, we set new five-year environmental goals in key areas such as emissions reduction and water conservation. And to help focus all of our employees on environmental sustainability, we aligned a portion of our employees’ compensation with environmental criteria for the first time.

In 2008, we became the largest purchaser of green power in the U.S., according to the U.S.
EPA. We also built the first solar installations at Intel facilities, and our venture capital arm, Intel
Capital, invested $100 million to support firms that are developing solar technologies. With the
2008 release of the Intel® Core™ i7 processor, we continued to demonstrate leadership in driv- ing both high levels of performance and energy efficiency in our products. In addition, working diligently on water management, we reduced our fresh-water needs by 3 billion gallons  per year. We are making progress, but we continue to face longer term challenges in reducing our
absolute environmental footprint due to our growth and the increasing complexity of our manu-
facturing processes. Addressing these challenges will be a strategic priority in the coming years.
In education, we surpassed the milestone of training 6 million teachers worldwide through the Intel® Teach Program. In addition, we partnered with governments to support the advancement of their education programs, and helped put affordable, portable, Intel-powered classmate PCs into the hands of students in close to 40 countries. We announced a joint business venture with Grameen Trust, using a “social business” model aimed at applying technology to address issues related to education, poverty, and healthcare in developing countries.

At the heart of our commitment to corporate responsibility are Intel’s more than 80,000  employees. Early in 2008, I challenged them to give 1 million hours of volunteer service to local communities in celebration of our 40th anniversary. In true Intel style, our employees didn’t just meet the goal, they surpassed it in early December, and by the end of the year they had donated
1,346,471 hours to more than 5,000 schools and nonprofit organizations around the world.

I believe this achievement?over 1 million hours of service in a single year?captures the essence of corporate responsibility at Intel. It’s an example of the commitment, energy, and innovative spirit that are synonymous with the Intel name. Quite simply, we do what we say and help make the impossible possible.

Paul S. otellini
President and Chief Executive Officer

----------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Supplementary information 

Throughout our 40-year history, Intel has pushed the boundaries of innovation, creating products that have fundamentally changed the way people live and work. But what we make possible goes well beyond our product roadmap. By working with others, we are finding opportunities to apply our technology and expertise to help tackle some of the world’s greatest challenges?from climate change and water conservation to education quality and the digital divide.

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Intel 2009

In 2009, we continued to invest in our corporate responsibility priorities, despite difficult eco- nomic conditions. We completed a number of energy efficiency, water conservation, and solar installation projects in our facilities, and Intel remained the largest purchaser of “green” power in the U.S., according to the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency. To help drive accountability, again this year a portion of all employees’ variable compensation was dependent upon Intel achieving its environmental goals. We also became a member of the United Nations Global Compact and published new Human Rights Principles, reinforcing our commitment to leader- ship in corporate responsibility.

Corporate responsibility for Intel is also about innovation, as we apply our resources to address global challenges. In 2009, we launched the Intel Sponsors of Tomorrow™ marketing campaign, which celebrates the accomplishments and contributions of Intel employees? innovators in the truest sense of the word. I continue to be amazed by their relentless focus on operational excellence, and their generosity in sharing their time and talent in our commu- nities. Every day they are discovering new ways to bring about improvements in education, the environment, and healthcare.

By improving the energy-efficient performance of our products, for example, our employ- ees are helping our customers and entire segments of the economy reduce energy use and address climate change. We estimate that the conversion to the energy-efficient Intel® Core™ microarchitecture saved up to 26 terawatt-hours of electricity between 2006 and 2009, compared to the technology it replaced. Our employees are also involved in initiatives to accel- erate the integration of intelligent renewable energy sources, smart grids, and smart buildings.

Innovation?and the economic development and competitiveness of countries?depend on the availability of a workforce with a strong mastery of math and science and the skills to apply knowledge in new ways. To inspire the next generation of innovators, Intel continues

to partner with governments and educators to develop and implement programs that combine technology, Internet connectivity, and training to improve teaching and learning around the world.

In 2009, we faced challenges related to antitrust allegations, including cases brought by the European Commission, the U.S. Federal Trade Commission, and the New York Attorney General. We firmly believe that Intel has operated fairly and lawfully, and we are continuing to appeal and to make our arguments in a court of law.

We also faced challenges in reducing our water use and waste generation in 2009, but we expect that the implementation of new technologies will enable us to improve our perfor- mance in these areas so we can achieve our 2012 environmental goals.

As you read this report, I hope that you will sense a continued progression, noting how we are building on successes, further integrating corporate responsibility into our culture and decision-making processes, and seeking new challenges to work on. We appreciate that our leadership position?in both innovation and corporate responsibility?must be earned every day. We welcome your feedback on this report, as well as suggestions for how we can drive performance improvements and increase value for our stakeholders around the world.

Paul S. Otellini
President and Chief Executive Officer

----------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Supplementary Information 

Corporate responsibility is about doing the right things right. Throughout Intel’s history, we have
focused on building an ethical culture, reducing our environmental impact, investing in our employees, and engaging with our communities. Our approach has created value not only for our stakeholders and society, but also for Intel. We have reduced costs through energy conservation investments, minimized risk by proactively working with our communities and supply chain, and enhanced our reputation as a leading corporate citizen by building trusted relationships around the world.

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Intel 2010

At Intel, we don’t separate corporate responsibility from our business. One of the four objectives in our global strategy is, “Care for our people and our planet, and inspire the next generation.” Every person at Intel has a role in achieving this objective, whether they design our products, work in our factories, or interface directly with our customers or suppliers. Our employees’ ongoing focus and achievements create value for Intel and for society.

Care for our people. We work to cultivate a safe, respectful, and ethical work environment that enables employees to thrive both on the job and in their communities. We invest heav- ily in mentoring, training, and leadership development programs, including targeted initiatives aimed at increasing the number of women and under-represented minorities in our manage-
rial ranks. By investing in our employees, we empower them to build stronger communities; in
2010, close to half of Intel’s workforce donated more than 1 million hours of service in schools and nonprofit organizations globally.

Care for the planet. Development of energy-efficient computing technologies is a key part of our efforts to help our customers conserve energy and address the issue of climate change. Our new Intel® Xeon® processor 5600 series for servers, for example, can increase performance by up to 40% while also saving power compared to the previous-generation Intel® Xeon® processor 5500 series. For the past three years, Intel has been the largest vol- untary purchaser of green power in the U.S., according to the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency. In 2010, we also opened our first Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design (LEED)-certified building, a design center in Israel.

Inspire the next generation. We believe that a solid math and science foundation coupled with key skills such as problem-solving, critical thinking, and collaboration are the foundation for innovation. Over the past decade, Intel and the Intel Foundation have invested more than

$1 billion to improve education globally, partnering with educators, governments, and other companies to develop a range of transformative programs and technology solutions. In 2010, in conjunction with U.S. President Barack Obama’s “Educate to Innovate” campaign, Intel announced a $200 million commitment to advance math and science education in the U.S.
In February 2011, I was honored to host President Obama on a visit to our Oregon site, where we discussed our shared commitment to improving education, and its critical importance to fueling innovation and sustainable economic development.

Looking ahead, we will continue to address challenges in reducing water use and chemical waste in our operations as we grow, and to drive leadership in supply chain responsibility. As part of our effort to operate with the gentlest environmental footprint possible, we will explore new ways that we can apply our technology?along with the considerable energy
and talents of our employees?to improve economic and environmental sustainability, and to transform education and technology access around the world.

While the world faces huge social and environmental challenges, I am proud to be part of a company that can?and is?making a difference. I encourage you to read this report and give us your feedback and ideas. Working together, we can make our world a better place for everyone.

Paul S. Otellini
President and Chief Executive Officer

----------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Supplementary Information 

Throughout Intel’s history, we have pushed the boundaries of what’s possible to improve how people work, live, and play. Our vision for the next decade is even more ambitious: to create and extend computing technology to connect and enrich the lives of every person on earth. A key determinant of our success will be our ability to innovate and advance our leadership in corporate responsibility.

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Intel 2011

Four strategic objectives guide us toward this vision. One of these objectives, in particular, reminds us of the integral role that corporate responsibility plays in the achievement of our vision: “Care for our people, care for the planet, and inspire the next generation.” Over the past year, we have made significant strides in each of these areas.
Care for our people. I am honored to work with the employees of Intel, who deliver extraordinary results every day to make our company’s vision a reality. Ours is a company of inventors. Our success rests on our employees’ ability to create and innovate?in technology, in business, and in their communities. One of the six Intel Values, “Great Place to Work,” rein- forces the strategic importance we place on investing in our people. We support this value by cultivating a safe, respectful, and ethical work environment that enables employees to thrive both on and off the job. In 2011, we invested approximately $299 million in employee train- ing and development, and through our extensive volunteer programs, we helped empower our employees to donate more than 1.1 million hours of service to their communities. Our workplace practices once again earned us a spot on Fortune magazine’s annual “100 Best Companies to Work For” list.
Care for the planet. We believe that technology plays a fundamental role in finding solutions to the world’s environmental challenges. Intel is a recognized leader in sustainability for the ways we work to minimize the environmental impacts of our own operations and design products that are increasingly energy efficient. In 2011, for the fourth year in a row, Intel was the largest voluntary purchaser of green power in the U.S., according to the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, and became the first semiconductor company to obtain LEED* Silver Certification for an entire manufacturing campus. We also introduced the world’s first 3-D Tri-Gate transistors, which can significantly improve a silicon chip’s performance and energy efficiency. To underscore the importance of sustainability to our business, we again included an environmental component in the formula used to determine bonuses for all of our employees. We continued to face challenges in the areas of water conservation and chemical waste reduction, but we have set new 2020 environmental goals to drive continuous improve- ment in both our manufacturing operations and the energy efficiency of our products.
Inspire the next generation. As a technology innovator, Intel depends on the availability of skilled workers, a healthy technology ecosystem, and knowledgeable customers. In turn, the health of local economies?including those where our employees live and work?depends on access to technology and quality education. In support of our efforts to transform educa- tion, Intel and the Intel Foundation collaborate with governments and educators, and invest approximately $100 million annually in programs around the world?from professional devel- opment for teachers to entrepreneurship programs to premier science and engineering fairs. In 2011, we reached our goal of providing technology training to 10 million teachers. Our initia- tives and technology solutions for the education market helped create economic and social opportunities for people in over 100 countries.
Intel is committed to continuous improvement in our own practices, and works with other organizations to advance best practices in corporate responsibility worldwide. In 2011, we also continued to raise the bar for expectations in our supply chain, through increased assessments and audits and by tackling difficult issues such as conflict minerals.
As a global technology and business leader, we are committed to doing the right things, the right way. Deeply embedding corporate responsibility into our business creates value for Intel by helping to mitigate risk, save costs, protect our brand value, and develop new market opportunities. For Intel, corporate responsibility is simply good business.
We welcome your feedback on this report and your suggestions on how we can continue to improve our performance and apply our technology to create a better future.
Paul S. Otellini
President and Chief Executive Officer
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Supplementary Information 
2011 was an outstanding year for Intel. Despite a tough macro-economic environment, the company set records in platform unit sales, revenue, and earnings, reflecting strong global demand for our products and solid execution by our employees around the world. We have an ambitious vision for the next decade: Create and extend computing technology to connect and enrich the lives of every person on earth.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------Intel 2012

At Intel, we believe that corporate responsibility is simply good business. Doing the right things the right way creates value for Intel and strengthens our position as a global technology and business leader. Deeply embedding corporate responsibility and a commitment to ethical behavior in all that we do helps us mitigate risk, reduce costs, protect our brand value, and develop new market opportunities.

We believe that technology will continue to play a fundamental role in addressing the world’s toughest environmental and social challenges?from energy and water conservation and management to healthcare and education for all. Intel has an ambitious vision: Create and extend computing technology to connect and enrich the life of every person on Earth. One of our strategic objectives, in particular, supports this vision: “Care for our people, care for the planet, and inspire the next generation.”

Care for our people. 
Intel’s success relies on our employees’ ability to create and innovate?in technology, in business, and in their communities. We invest significant resources in employee training and development, greatplace-to-work and diversity initiatives, and programs that empower employees to volunteer with local schools and nonprofit organizations. For example, through our Intel Involved program, our employees have donated more than 5 million hours of volunteer service around the world over the past five years. We measure our progress each year by soliciting employee feedback through our annual Organizational Health Survey; in our 2012 survey, 88% of employees reported that they are proud to work for Intel, up from 87% in 2011.

Care for the planet. 
We are committed to environmental leadership in our own operations, in our products, and across our supply chain. Since 2008, Intel has been the largest voluntary purchaser of “green” power in the U.S., according to the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency. Our investments in energy conservation from 2008 through 2012 have saved more than 1.2 billion kilowatt-hours of energy, equivalent to removing 126,000 U.S. homes from the electric grid. We estimate that energy-efficient Intel® technology will enable the billion PCs installed between 2007 and 2014 to consume half the energy and deliver 17 times the compute capacity of the first billion PCs and servers installed worldwide (between 1980 and 2007). We have also invested resources to improve the accountability and transparency of our suppliers, and have formally integrated environmental metrics in the scorecards we use in our supplier management and supplier recognition programs.

Inspire the next generation. 
We believe that success in today’s innovation economy depends on access to technology and quality education. Intel and the Intel Foundation invest approximately $100 million annually in education programs around the world?from technology training for teachers to premier science fairs for students. In 2012, we helped launch the Stay With It™ campaign to help connect engineering students with each other and with experienced engineers, role models, and influencers, and encourage them to stay with engineering as their field of study. We also partnered on the launch of the “Girl Rising” film and 10x10 social action campaign, which highlights the importance of investing in the education of girls and women to advance economic opportunity. 

We strive for continuous improvement in our own business, and collaborate with other organizations to advance best practices in corporate responsibility worldwide. As a United Nations Global Compact LEAD member, we are committed to transparency in reporting about our corporate responsibility performance and actions. We welcome your feedback on this report, prepared in accordance with the Global Reporting Initiative* G3.1 Sustainability Reporting Guidelines.

I will retire in May 2013 after almost 40 years at the company. I am proud of the progress we have made in corporate responsibility during the eight years I have served as CEO. It has been an honor to work with the employees of Intel, who every day move technology forward, empower people, and transform our world in ways we had never imagined.

I have no doubt that their innovations and actions will continue to improve lives while sustaining our business?and the planet?in the years to come.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------Intel 2013

From ultra-mobile and wearable devices to cloud computing and security, the technology universe is changing dramatically. During this unprecedented industry transformation, we remain as committed to leadership in corporate responsibility as we do to innovation in our products and technologies. We believe that corporate responsibility creates value for our company, our stockholders, and society. 

At Intel, our focus is on taking action and achieving results. I am especially proud of our leadership in the area of “conflict minerals.” We have worked for five years to ensure that our products do not contain tantalum, tin, tungsten, or gold derived from sources that benefit armed groups in the Democratic Republic of the Congo (DRC) or adjoining countries?making sure that we are still able to source responsibly from the region. In 2013, we accomplished our goal to manufacture “conflict-free” microprocessors. While this is a significant milestone, we will continue our work to establish “conflict-free” supply chains for these minerals?for our company and our industry.

Intel remains the largest voluntary purchaser of “green” power in the U.S., according to the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, a designation that we have held since 2008. We have also made substantial progress toward achieving our 2020 sustainability goals, and our focus over the next few years will be on improving our own performance as well as that of our supply chain.
Energy-efficient performance remains a driving force in the design of our products. In 2013, we launched 4th generation Intel® Core™ processors that deliver industry-leading performance as well as the largest generational gain in battery life in Intel’s product history. 

As part of our efforts to encourage innovation and push the boundaries of imagination?in corporate research labs, classrooms, homes, and even garages?we collaborated with Arduino* to introduce the Intel® Galileo development board, designed for the “maker” and education communities. To spark the minds of young innovators and ignite new technologies, we plan to donate 50,000 Intel Galileo boards to 1,000 universities over 18 months. I am proud of Intel’s ongoing efforts in education, many of which encourage hands-on learning that inspires the interest in science, technology, engineering, and math that is vital to our success.

In 2013, we also invested significantly in our employees through training and development, greatplace-to-work and diversity initiatives, and programs that encourage employees to volunteer with local schools and nonprofit organizations. These efforts helped us once again earn a spot on Fortune magazine’s annual “100 Best Companies to Work For” list.

I am personally committed to ensuring that Intel does the right things, in the right way, and I welcome your feedback on our performance. As a United Nations Global Compact LEAD member, Intel is committed to transparency in reporting about our corporate responsibility performance and actions.
This report provides a summary of our accomplishments in 2013, as well as a look forward to the goals we hope to achieve.
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ Nokia 2003
Mr Veli Sundb?ck
Senior Vice President, Corporate Relations and
Responsibility, Member of the Group Executive Board

EXECUTIVE STATEMENT
2003 ? further alignment of corporate responsibility to business operations
Our strong financial performance and leading market position are both an illustration of responsibility and an excellent foundation for further extending the boundaries of responsible business. This was highlighted in 2003 by our product portfolio being expanded to include more affordable mobile phones for less developed markets, and environmental  and social programs being further developed and integrated into normal business operations.

Our strategy of expanding mobile voice, driving consumer multimedia  consumption and mobilizing  enterprises saw no fewer than 40 new product launches in the handsets business alone during  2003. Our aim to increase the penetration of mobile communi- cations in countries with sparse infrastructure  and contribute  to sustainable growth was demonstrated by global launches of “entry-level” mobile phones and network infrastructure in Russia and India, and by the Philippines piloting of Bridgeit, a unique mobile technology solution.

Working with the UNDP (United Nations Development Program), International  Youth Foundation, Pearson and the local government, authorities  and business community, Bridgeit has also so far been an excellent example of tri-sector cooperation. Our com- mitment to universal  access and promotion of the social and economic benefits of mobile communications was also demonstrated by sponsorship of the United Nations’ World Summit on Information Society.

Deeper integration  of environmental activities into the business through, for instance,
training and internal communications, was complemented by an important three-year agreement with WWF (World Wide Fund for Nature). Meanwhile, our involvement with local communities was strengthened by expanding our youth and life-skills program,
Make a Connection, to 16 countries and our employee-volunteering program to 28 countries.

Being one of the world’s leading brands, we naturally take company reputation
seriously. During 2003, in the interest of consumer safety, we joined forces with
authorities, the media and our suppliers to point out the potential dangers of using
non-original phone batteries and to implement  aggressive measures against counterfeit  products. Following a year of increased communications with external parties, we were
delighted to see Nokia ranked first in a number of internationally acknowledged ethical and sustainability research studies conducted by consumer associations and investors.
In the Dow Jones Sustainability Indexes, Nokia ranked first in Global Communications
Technology and European Technology.

Towards the end of 2003, we took the decision, effective January 1, 2004, to reorganize
the company structure. Although demanding from an issue and employee communica-  tions perspective, we believe that the new structure will offer even better prerequisites to integrate programs and to engage every employee in making sure all business is responsible business.

Stakeholder Cooperation
Understanding what different stakeholders expect from us as a company, is just as important  as understanding  customer needs for our products. Stakeholder engagement is the chance to listen to, and translate expectations into business value. It is an opportunity to discuss what responsibility lies with the different members of society.

By stakeholders, we mean individuals and groups of people that influence or are influenced by our company. These include, but are not limited to, consumers and network  operators, business associates and suppliers, employees, shareholders and investors, academia, the media, non-governmental organizations (NGOs), consumer associations, governments and authorities.

Our aim is to make stakeholder dialogue part of everyday business, in order to have the best exchange of information and get the right information quickly to the people who can evaluate it and put it to good use. Throughout  this report we identify some of the various stakeholders we consult in the daily operations of our business, not only relating to our corporate responsibility but the manner in which we report on our activities.

------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ Nokia 2004

Message from Jorma Ollila
Nokia Chairman and CEO

The business of being responsible

The success of big business and the well-being of the world have never been more closely linked. Global issues cannot  be removed from the business world because  business has only one world in which to operate. Businesses cannot  succeed in societies that  fail. Societies also benefit from the success of business in many ways. Open markets  certainly contribute to sustainable development.

Profitable business fundamental for good citizenship
A well-managed, successful business is in itself an important driver for growth. Strong profitability over time gives us the means  to develop the products  and services people want, provide stable employment  and create  new jobs, as well as reward our shareholders. A less talked-about by- product  of strong profits, which benefits society, is also through  statutory  requirements such as the payment  of corporate  taxes.

A sound financial base provides for investment into future technologies as well as new growth markets, which is not only good for our business, but for people in developing countries who are just beginning  to see the benefits of mobile communications for their lives and their livelihoods.

Responsible business drives performance
Strong profitability means  we can invest in important ethical and environ- mental  programs, allowing us to comply quickly with new legislation and better  manage risk. Corporate Responsibility drives performance,  promotes strategy  and efficiency and supports  our strong Nokia reputation and brand. In this way, it gives a longer view on value creation and profitability, reinforcing our strong corporate  culture.

But companies are not governments or law-makers
The challenge for companies  is to integrate and uphold responsible
practices in every single thing they do, on an individual level, in all countries where they operate  and together with their external partners.  Having said
that, the role of companies  is not to govern or make laws. What we as a
company seek to do is to work together with all parties in our value chain,
upstream and down, ensuring  that  we are legally compliant and that  global issues of environment, health, diversity and human  rights become  a natural  part of the way we work. We would expect governments and authorities,  in
turn, to responsibly enforce laws and avoid legislation that  is harmful to business competitiveness.

Community involvement goes beyond core business activities
Going beyond our core business activities, investing in the community
through  social or environmental programs  is another  important way for us to express an overall sense of responsibility. Although there  is a lot of discussion nowadays  on what companies  should be achieving in the
communities,  activities are not legally prescriptive, and there  is no-one
yardstick for measuring  their success. Nokia has a range of local activities ongoing  including employee volunteering,  disaster  relief and corporate
giving, and a company-wide  focus on youth life-skills and education.

Businesses can  maximize contribution with a systematic approach
There remains  a lot of discussion on what companies  need to achieve, but no real clarity on how they should best rise to the task. To my mind the challenge for companies  is not just to pursue  random  acts of goodness,  but to look at what actions are actually in their power, what makes the best business sense, and what produces  concrete, measurable results. With this kind of systematic  approach,  businesses  can maximize their contribution.

--------

Veli Sundb?ck
Senior Vice President
Corporate Relations and Responsibility

Letter to stakeholders 2004

By acting responsibly, we can contribute  to sustainable development and build a strong foundation for economic growth.

In the Corporate Responsibility arena, 2004 can be characterized as a year of successes, but not without  self-scrutiny. Accomplishments bring new challenges  as well as wider acknowledgement and inspection  from our external audiences. In this sense, it was also a year of living with criticism and learning from feedback.

Lowering the bar on  availability, affordability, and usability
Success in high-growth markets  in 2004 was not only good news for our business, but for people in developing countries who are just discovering the benefits of mobile communications in their lives and even their livelihoods.

The number  of new mobile users in fast growing markets  where penetration levels are low (India, Russia, China, most Latin American countries, and several African countries) continued  to rise dramatically in 2004, and Nokia played a role in boosting  this growth by increasing the availability, affordability, and even usability, of mobile communications in these  markets.

We have been working closely with the UNICT task force on the theme  of enabling  an environment for contribution  to universal access. We believe the fastest  most cost-effective way to achieve an inclusive society, where people have easy access to information,  is through  mobile communications.

What does this mean  for our stakeholders?  They need to be committed to this noble ambition. On the government side this means  commitment to change. On the regulatory side, it means  being committed  to competitive markets. On the private sector side, it means  committing  people, time and money to developing the appropriate technology, infrastructure and service offerings.

Investing in people
Last year was a big year for investing in our own people. We ended  2004 with a little over 55 500 employees, representing an increase of more than 4 000 people. A record fourth-quarter financial performance  in both our devices and networks businesses,  made  for a strong finish for the year and our employees  will be rewarded  with a full 5% Connecting People bonus for the second half of 2004. We also invested EUR 90 million in individual and group training for our people.

Strengthening supply-chain and own operations
In our supply-chain practices, during the year, we saw increased  public scrutiny from a range of parties. We also went deeper  into our own practices, carrying out global ethical assessments on the labor conditions of our suppliers as well as initiating similar assessments on our own
manufacturing operations.

Areas where improvement was required  were identified and corrective actions were taken. In this way, we proved to ourselves that  we have a good process in place, although,  I still think it fair to say that  this kind of comprehensive audit helps us learn and develop an even swifter and more effective future response.

Internal awareness and tighter controls
The year brought  further self-scrutiny as we moved forward with our new organization structure.  The success in aligning our business with the dynamics of a changing operating environment was underscored by the accompanying  challenge of learning to work together effectively within an entirely new structure.

Against this backdrop, in our financial reporting, we have been focusing on the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, an influential piece of legislation relating to corporate  governance,  financial disclosure and public accounting.  I believe that  the increased  attention to internal  controls through  Sarbanes-Oxley will only be of benefit to us. It requires us to review and document our existing
good practices, confirming roles, responsibilities  and internal  accountability, and reducing the risk of error. It is also shines more light on the Nokia Values and Code of Conduct.

This comes in tandem  with a companywide  awareness building push this year on our Code of Conduct, which has now been translated into 15 languages and explains how every one of us must carry out our work and comply with ethical and legal standards.  As part of our campaign, teams  were encouraged to sit down with top management and openly discuss controversial issues within their own context from an ethical business standpoint.

Legal  compliance on  harmful substances
We stepped  up our efforts last year in meeting  requirements for the European Union directive on the restriction of use of certain hazardous substances (RoHS), and we are now on target  for the July 2006 deadline. At Nokia, we began  our research  and preparation very early, setting ambitious  internal  targets.  Having said that, the shift to RoHS-compliant devices has proved much more of a challenge than  many in the industry, including Nokia, first anticipated.  Clearly we are not willing to make concessions on quality, yet concerns on quality must be balanced  out with effective replacement solutions and legal time constraints.

Working well with WWF
Building on cooperation with WWF, we jointly launched  an internal  aware-  ness building website as well as conducting  internal  employee workshops around  the world on selected topics with an environmental angle. Backed by WWF’s hands-on expertise in running  discussion groups and their ability to attract  a broad cross-section  of participants,  we also staged  a series of external stakeholder  seminars  in selected regions around  the world.

Positive impact in Community involvement
In community  involvement, we expanded  our youth life-skills program,
Make a Connection, from 16 to 19 countries. We also saw excellent results from our Philippines pilot of Bridgeit. Launched by Nokia, the International Youth Foundation, the United Nations Development Programme  and Pearson, Bridgeit uses mobile technology  to bring interactive, multimedia-  learning materials  to schools. With this successful pilot comes the new challenge of expanding  the program  to double the number  of schools and replicating it in other countries.

Stakeholder recognition in new growth market
In India, one of the world’s fastest  growing economies, Nokia won the Brand of the Year award from the Confederation of Indian Industries  (CII). What was particularly reassuring  here is that  the CII Brand award does not focus purely on financial parameters, but is a 360-degree evaluation  by all relevant stakeholders.  Nokia is already the clear mobile phone  market leader in India, with established sales, marketing,  customer  care, and research  and development sites.

Number one in Dow Jones Sustainability Index
In acknowledgement of increased  transparency and positive developments in our environmental and ethical programs, Nokia came in first place for the second year running  in the Dow Jones Sustainability Index European Technology and Global Communications Technology categories.

------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ Nokia 2005

CEO Message
Message from Olli-Pekka Kallasvuo, CEO
Nokia Corporation  1 June, 2006

Despite the complexity surrounding Corporate Responsibility (CR) issues, I see sound environmental, ethical and social principles as central to building long-term  value. Effective environmental management, for example, cuts waste and reduces costs. Responsible labor practices can result in lower absenteeism and labor turnover as well as higher productivity, creativity and quality.

We are increasingly approached by our customers,  suppliers, our own employees, investors and the wider public to engage  on these kinds of issues. This report is one important channel for this.

The year 2005 was an important year for engagement. Our Executive Board fully updated our Code of Conduct, rolling it out in September  as a web-based learning tool, which 75% of our employees have now completed. Highlights in other areas include, staging a successful global stakeholder  event, increased focus on improving internal labour conditions management,
the industry’s ?rst mobile phone and network product compliant with new EU restrictions on hazardous substances,  and the initiation of a mobile phone micro?nancing project in Africa.

In our sourcing work, feedback from our suppliers, led us to revise and update  our Nokia Supplier Requirements. In particular, the environmental and ethical sections of the new guidelines, to be introduced later this year, re?ect an increasing public focus on concerns such as substance  and waste management, as well as human  rights.

On broader sustainability issues, I see the success of big business and the wellbeing of the world as closely linked. Nokia’s core business, mobile communications, is in itself good for development. There is already a clear correlation between  access to low-cost mobile communications in the world’s least developed countries and increased economic growth,
social networks and quality of life.

Going beyond our core business, I also see a role for private sector activity in tackling global
challenges. More work needs to be done on defining the exact nature  of this role but the general consensus  is that firstly a responsible, values-driven business sector can be crucial in addressing global development issues, and secondly that partnerships among private and public sectors, and civil society ? even with all the complexities such relationships  bring
? can have enormous potential  for achieving results.

Nokia is already visible at local and global levels through  our many community involvement projects that go beyond the technology, products and services we create. In addition to disaster relief, corporate  giving and volunteering,  we work together with governments, corporate  partners  and the non-profit sector in addressing important social issues through  our focus on youth life-skills and education.

I am proud of the commitment we have always tried to show in demonstrating responsible behaviour to our stakeholders.  However, continued  good work must be done in ensuring that Nokia’s environmental and ethical programs  are not seen as separate add-on  management features. They must become embedded in all our processes and attitudes.

In making this happen,  I am calling for the determination of all Nokia employees to carry out their work responsibly through  our values and our newly updated code of conduct. Newcomers to the Nokia team must also commit to the code, which has now been translated into 30 languages,  and understand what it means for them and their contribution  to our business.

Q.이 보고서에서는 CEO msg 따로, letter to stakeholders 따로 분리 되어 있어서 그냥 두 개 모두 넣었습니다. 

Letter to stakeholders


Introduction

At Nokia, reporting  is an integral part of our corporate  responsibility work. We see clear and consistent  communications on our progress as fundamental to building trust and reputation that goes far beyond the financial community.

We produced our first corporate  responsibility report in 2002. Since then, we’ve worked steadily to increase the quality and scope of our reporting  content  as well as raise the level of awareness on ethical and environmental issues internally and with our stakeholders.

In this way, you could say that our reporting  has been more than just a journey towards producing an annual publication. It has become an active and ongoing dialogue with our own people and those outside our organization with whom we cooperate and work.

2005 ? A year of communications

The year 2005 can be characterized as a big year for communications. Many of our major actions and achievements involved engaging  both internally and with our external partners.  Early in the year, Nokia’s Group Executive Board made a full update  of our Code of Conduct and launched  a companywide awareness-building campaign.

Based on an e-learning  training and discussion platform, launched  in September, more than
65% of our employees had been reached by the year end. Our Code of Conduct, which sets out how our employees should carry out their work, was translated into 25 languages by the end of 2005, compared  to 15 in 2004.

Stakeholder days 2005
In 2005, we staged  a successful global stakeholder  event, bringing together 110 participants  from 28 countries representing civil society, the public sector, academia,  and a range of businesses. The aim of the event was not to chair a Nokia-centric forum, but rather provide a level platform for participants  to give frank views on broader issues important in the societies where we operate.

Discussions over the two days moved from the importance  of multi-sector  cooperation and taking care of youth to corporate  responsibility reporting  and mobile communications for development. This led to several initiatives, including our commitment to publish a study on Mobile Communications and Development in 2006 as well as a pledge to run a similar event in 2007.

EC integrated product  pilot
Another good example of our external involvement comes through  in our work with
the European Commission’s Integrated Product Policy. This is a totally new approach  for achieving environmental improvements and finding new ways to steer them instead of the traditional command  and control regulatory measures used by authorities  today. The Commission chose Nokia as one of two companies  to help pilot this new approach.

During 2005, we worked intensively with our suppliers, competitors, customers,  recyclers, public authorities  including the Commission, consumer organizations and NGOs to identify relevant life-cycle environmental issues as well as policy tool related issues to steer environmental improvements effectively. As a full member  of the UNICT Taskforce, Nokia also played a key role in the second World Summit on the Information Society in Tunisia.

RoHS compliance in sight
Also working with our own people and our suppliers, we are now well on the way to full compliance with the European Union’s  RoHS directive restricting the use of potentially harmful substances in product manufacturing. This applies to all electric and electronics equipment put onto the market following 1 July 2006.

In 2005, we launched two fully-compliant products, the Nokia 5140i, which became the ?rst RoHS-compliant mobile device on the market and the Nokia FlexiHopper Plus microwave radio, one of the industry’s ?rst mobile network products compliant to RoHS including lead-free manufacturing capability in volume deliveries since the ?rst quarter  of 2005.

Takeback and recycling
In our work in takeback and recycling, Nokia’s strategic aim is to offer globally available and accessible takeback channels to all our customers.  We are also committed to driving visibility and awareness around this issue, wherever we do business. However, governments, industry groups, retailers and consumers in every region approach  this issue slightly differently.

In Europe, for example, last year our focus was on complying with the European Union’s new Waste Electrical and Electronic Equipment directive, while in North America and China,
we began piloting new local initiatives to build awareness and increase takeback avenues and volumes.

Activities in the US included a tie up with E-bay’s Rethink ? a recovery program for retired handsets at no cost to the customer  ? and an Earth Day internal awareness-building event staged  at the Nokia Experience Centers and across ?ve major Nokia sites in North America, as well as takeback collection bins at each Nokia location, and at government of?ces in Texas, Florida and New Jersey.

In China, we launched the Green Box Take-back Scheme, in cooperation with our largest customer and our largest competitor  there to set up a mobile phone and accessories takeback system. As our largest market, with more than 400 million mobile subscribers, the need for effective end-of-life treatment practices is escalating exponentially. This new project has come up with an effective takeback model for China as well as raised national awareness on the issue and seven other major mobile phone manufacturers have now joined the scheme.

Working with WWF
Still in our environmental work, this year marks a move towards the successful completion of a three-year cooperation agreement with WWF. Highlights of the agreement, aimed at mutual learning, include access for all Nokia employees to a web-based application for raising environmental awareness,  as well as business case projects, workshops, voluntary activities and joint stakeholder  seminars across the organization and around the world.

New supplier requirements
We see our suppliers are an extension of our own business and in a very real sense they are. In our relationships with our suppliers, we were very active, continuing our regular communications, conducting supplier assessments and driving improvements. We have also been revising our global set of Nokia Supplier Requirements.

New requirements, due to be communicated later in 2006, re?ect the increasing importance  of environmental issues, ethics, health and safety and labor conditions in the supply-chain.
In this new version, our aim has been to position these issues in a positive light, linking them to day-to-day  business practices.

At industry-level, we also continued  our participation  in the supply-chain working group
of the Global e-sustainability initiative, supporting  the aims to promote  good conduct and develop tools, management practices, processes and systems to assist members in dealing with CR-related supply-chain issues.

Nokia in the community

In 2005, the number  of mobile subscribers in the world reached 2 billion, with 3 billion projected by 2008. The galloping pace of this technology is having far-reaching  positive impacts on society, particularly in the developing markets of Asia, the Middle East and Africa. We see mobile communications as the fastest most cost-effective way to achieve an inclusive world, giving people a voice, easy access to social networks and the chance to participate  more fully in economic systems.

Building  bridges
Aside from our core mobile phone business, Bridgeit continues  to be one of our main community involvement programs  in making available the benefits of information and communications technologies  to the developing world. The program, which has been successfully piloted in the Philippines, uses mobile technology to bring multimedia  educational content  to school children, and will be scaled up from an existing 200 schools to an additional 500-700 in the next three years.

We are also in the discussions with several countries in Sub-Saharan Africa, Asia and Latin America about the replication of this program, which is built around  a flexible platform, focuses on local ownership, includes teacher  training and allows for tailored content  in multiple languages and content  formats.

Microfinancing villages
Nokia and the Grameen Foundation USA also joined forces last year to bring affordable mobile communications access to rural villages in developing countries through  the use of microfinance.

The initiative, which includes a tailor made booster antenna solution to reach villages outside regular coverage, is based on Grameen’s successful microfinancing model, helping mostly women, start self-sustaining  businesses. The Village Phone program  is now being scaled up
to 3000-5000  new villages in Uganda and Rwanda.

All Nokia’s  community involvement activities are built around  local needs, with a strong focus on results, especially societal outcomes.  We have therefore  commissioned  an in-depth  study in Uganda to research the socio-economic impact of this microfinancing program, including the challenges of affordability, poverty alleviation, as well as implications on health, employment  and education  in local communities.

We are also planning to bring microfinance components to the long-term  support program  for communities in Indonesia, India, Thailand and Sri Lanka affected by the Tsunami disaster.

Disaster  relief
Natural disasters have recently had a very large impact on the world. In response  to the
South Asian tsunami, Pakistan earthquake and US hurricane relief efforts, Nokia pledged EUR
4.25 million to support long-term  rebuilding efforts. The short-term disaster relief aid for these events was overwhelming in some respects, due to the limited capacity of the affected regions to absorb and utilize the funds.

Nokia provided products, and volunteering  support on the ground as well as to Aid organizations in other countries, however, now that much of the short-term relief has expired, our efforts are largely being focused on the long-term  support needed  to sustain and support full recovery.

Finally, I would also give recognition to our employees for their contributions during the year through volunteering  and their donations of products and money for disaster relief and other causes.  Hands-on volunteering  activities were conducted  in 29 countries in 2005, up from 23 countries in 2004.  An employee time-off policy and internal tracking tool were also introduced  to help our employees connect with their communities as well as help us report
on their progress.

Looking forward

As we increase our corporate  responsibility activities, managing issues and programs, we
will continue developing our processes to ensure that these do not become adjunct activities removed from our day-to-day  work. That means successfully embedding sustainability thinking into every thing we do and every business decision we make.

The next challenge is then to execute and effectively communicate these successes, working to make our reporting  framework ever more relevant, understandable and meaningful  to our own people and to those outside our organization with whom we cooperate and work.

------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ Nokia 2006
CEO message

For Nokia, 2006 was a period of tremendous growth and evolution. This Corporate Responsibility Report details how we managed this dynamic period in a responsible manner, by making business decisions that take into account our stakeholders' well-being.

As a market leader in a global industry that touches the lives of billions of people, we recognize our duty to act responsibly. This commitment is aligned with our strategic direction, which focuses on a human approach to technology. International dialogue concerning responsible business practices is alive, with people's purchasing decisions increasingly based on ethical as well as economic considerations. Recognizing its accountability to individuals and societies, Nokia has integrated ethical and ecologically sound practices throughout its value chain.

During 2006, Nokia continued its expansion in both new and established markets, achieving record net sales of EUR 41.1 billion and record mobile device volumes of 347 million units. This increased our leading share of the global device market to 36%. Running a company with a sustainable profit base is crucial for business and to being a good corporate citizen.

Growth and evolution

Our acquisition activity was stepped up in 2006 with the purchase of companies such as Loudeye, Intellisync, and Gate5, which allow us to enhance our products with business, music, and navigation services. These changes have led to an increase within the Nokia community, which now consists of just over 68,000 employees, representing more than 120 nationalities. This growing multicultural workforce further highlights our diversity and inclusion efforts.

Another aspect of our growth and evolution was announced in June 2006, with foundations put in place to establish a new networks company called Nokia Siemens Networks, jointly owned by Nokia and Siemens. This alliance will result in a broad, extremely competitive portfolio to address both the mobile and fixed needs of customers in a converging
telecommunications market.

Enhanced communications

Beginning in 2006, further improvements were targeted in a variety of areas. For our internal Code of Conduct campaign, we set a target of achieving 90% total employee awareness and understanding. By the end of 2006 we had reached 81% and a commitment to continue the campaign in 2007. Employee feedback from the e-learning experience spoke positively of the training, providing concrete examples of work practices that may have seemed ambiguous or unclear.

We also recognized the need for further communication with our suppliers regarding ethical and social issues. Our work in this area evolved into an updated version of the Nokia Supplier Requirements, a supportive and constructive set of guidelines that communicates to suppliers what Nokia views as responsible production operations.

In improving energy efficiency, an area in which Nokia has already made considerable progress in our operations and products, we have now taken our thinking a step further by integrating climate impacting considerations into our business strategy. Overall Nokia continues to address the key environmental impacts of our products at each stage of their lifecycle.

New opportunities

Nokia strongly believes that telecommunications supports sustainable development, and we strive to align our technology with this belief. In 2006 we gained a clearer understanding of mobile telephony's impact at a ground level due to studies conducted in various emerging markets. The results so far are positive, but more research is needed in order to best meet the needs of those living in rural, remote areas around the world.

Though not new to Nokia, accessibility continues both as part of our social responsibility strategy and our mainstream business. Today, where 10% of the population lives with a recognized disability, our products could benefit more than 600 million people. In 2006 we continued to research new accessibility solutions to suit the various needs that exist within communities, and I look forward to seeing the fruits of this work with some of the projected mobile device products to be launched during 2007.

Concerning  our engagement  activities, we took another step forward in early 2006 by joining the European Union's Corporate Social Responsibility Alliance initiative. Through this forum we anticipate that we will gain new insights by sharing best practices with others in the industry.

Continuing onward

I am encouraged by all the good work that we achieved in 2006 and am eager to push ahead into 2007 and make yet more progress. With the growing reach of mobility, Nokia's massive potential to be the catalyst for positive change is increasingly evident. I feel confident that there is an understanding  and determination from all Nokia employees to make this potential a reality as we move forward.

------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ Nokia 2007

CEO Message
Nokia experienced another fulfilling year in 2007, with continuing rapid change in our business, markets, technologies and applications. We consolidated our position as the global leader in mobile communications and further developed our ambition to bring social, environmental and economic benefits to people throughout the world.
During the year, we created a new organizational structure for Nokia (introduced on 1 January 2008) which reflects the growing importance of services such as music and navigation. This follows the creation of Nokia Siemens Networks earlier in the year, aimed at strengthening infrastructure business.
Our vision is a world where everyone can be connected, and with mobile subscriptions expected to hit four billion in 2009, we are closer to that than anyone could have imagined just a few years ago. But our strategy is not just about growth, and the convergence of mobile and internet technologies. It is also about doing business in ways which benefit people, communities and the environment.
This is not new for Nokia. We have always aimed to do business responsibly and working specifically on reducing our environmental impact for more than a decade. This is reflected in our membership of the FTSE4Good and Dow Jones Sustainability Indices.
But there are always new opportunities and challenges and this report describes how we have responded to them in 2007.
Increasing access to communications is key to achieving our vision. It is clear that mobile technology can make a positive contribution to societies, through connecting people to new opportunities. We are investing in research in developing countries to understand those opportunities better.
At Nokia, we see environmental responsibility as an opportunity rather than a constraint - we believe we can help people to make more sustainable choices, as well as reducing the environmental "footprint" of our products and operations.
Last year we placed a lot of emphasis on the environmental impact of our industry, especially energy efficiency. It is clear that strong, early action on climate change is essential, and while Nokia's direct CO2 emissions are relatively small we can make a significant contribution to tackling climate change through the energy our products use. We have made great progress in reducing the energy lost by a charger when it remains plugged in once the device is fully charged. In 2007, we became the first mobile manufacturer to introduce alerts in devices reminding people to unplug their chargers when not charging.
These may on first look seem like small steps, but when multiplied by the many hundreds of millions of people owning Nokia devices the potential is huge. The energy that could be saved globally by all Nokia phone users unplugging their chargers when no longer needed is equivalent to enough to power 100 000 average-size European homes.
In 2007 we initiated work with suppliers to set energy efficiency targets that go beyond our current environmental supplier requirements. This builds on our ongoing work to further assess and develop environmental, labor and social conditions throughout the supply chain.
The contribution we can make is substantial, but I know our impact will be greater if we work with others - in our industry and beyond. That is why we have become a full member of the ICT industry's Global e-Sustainability Initiative (GeSI) and extended our partnership with the global conservation organization WWF, as well as embarking on many other external activities.
It is critical that we achieve our objectives in an ethical manner, and last year we reviewed and refined our core values, to better reflect the way we work. In creating the Values, we involved around 13 000 employees in the Nokia Way Jam, a 72- hour online discussion to debate our values and our future business strategy.
Nokia Siemens Networks employees have also participated in the training to understand and comply with the Code of Conduct. By the end of 2007, more than 22 000 out of 58 500 employees of Nokia Siemens Networks had successfully completed the training - over a third of Nokia Siemens Networks worldwide employees.

Looking forward
Corporate Responsibility (CR) is no longer a specialist subject of interest only to particular interest groups, but part of the general concern of consumers, investors, suppliers, customers, and of course employees. That is reflected in our plans to integrate CR into our mainstream reporting. We have already begun increasingly to incorporate CR data into our annual report on Form 20-F.
I look forward to another year when I am sure we will confront many challenges in this rapidly-changing world, and equally sure that we will make further progress in pursuing our strategy to be a responsible leader in our industry. Society faces a huge task in seeking to make progress in a range of social, economic and environmental issues over the next few years. We will play our part in bringing the benefits of mobile technology to many more millions of people and will continue to do that in ways which reflect the Nokia values.

Olli-Pekka Kallasvuo
President and CEO of Nokia Corporation
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ Nokia 2008

Q. 선배님, NOKIA 2008 CSR에는CEO나 그 누구의 msg가 없네요… 
싸이트에서도 직접 확인했지만 못 찾았어요. 
http://www.nokia.com/global/about-nokia/people-and-planet/strategy/reports/sustainability-reports/

------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ Nokia 2009
CEO’s Message
At Nokia we strive to lead in sustainability by taking it into account in everything we do. While it is a key part of our business strategy, we also look beyond our own operations to how the more than 1.2 billion people who use a Nokia phone can use mobility to embrace a more sustainable lifestyle every day.

In this report, we present a wide range of examples of how and where our work enhances sustainability. There are sections on improved accessibility, education, data gathering, materials management, product energy efficiency and the various environmental services available through mobile devices. We also look at improvements in our own operations, such as packaging, logistics and supply chain management.
We believe that better use of information and communication technologies can contribute in a big way to economic growth while offering considerable opportunities to cut greenhouse gas emissions and address global warming. That said, the full potential of mobility to help drive sustainability has yet to be realised.

Last year had its challenges brought about by the global recession and changes in the mobile industry.
Nokia is responding to the increasing consumer interest in features that are driven by innovations in software. As a result, we have been working hard to rebuild our R&D organization and define new ways of working.
In early 2009, we announced voluntary measures aimed at reducing personnel-related costs and the need for involuntary layoffs. Thanks to cooperation with our employees, our programs were successful and of the reductions that we made in 2009, less than 25 percent were involuntary.

On a more positive note, after several years favorable rating by the widely recognized Dow Jones Sustainability Indexes, this year Nokia was chosen as the “World Technology Supersector Leader.” This honor means Nokia was ranked No. 1 in sustainability across the entire global technology sector on the basis of a detailed corporate sustainability analysis.

Nokia has a long track record of taking sustainability into account in the way we do business every day. For example, we regularly evaluate the use of water and materials, as well as our carbon dioxide emissions, across our supply chain. We have further broadened our environmental focus areas, with water and biodiversity issues growing in importance. In 2009, we continued to look at reducing the environmental impact of our devices and operations. For example, over the last decade, we have reduced the average no-load energy consumption of our chargers by more than 80 percent. In our best chargers, the reduction has been more than 95 percent.


Since we created our climate strategy in 2006, we have looked at how our products, services, operations, facilities and the ways we work can contribute to a reduction in our CO2 emissions. In 2009, we reduced our facilities’ CO2 emissions by 12 percent, compared with levels in 2006. During the same year, we also reached the energy savings target we had set to reach by 2012. We also made progress in waste utilization and in our efforts to reduce water use and air travel. These achievements were mainly due to various reduction programs, but the slowdown in business activities in 2009 also had an impact.

We also have been looking at increasing purchases of electricity from renewable sources in those countries where we manufacture our products. Unfortunately, we have found the availability of renewable electricity in our key countries to be limited and expanding more slowly than we had anticipated.

In the process of developing this report, we have referred to the guidance and requirements of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) and UN Global Compact reporting guidelines. We would welcome your views on our sustainability performance and this report.

Olli-Pekka Kallasvuo
President and CEO of Nokia Corporation

------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ Nokia 2010
Interview with Stephen Elop 
President and CEO of Nokia 

In September, 2010, Stephen elop joined Nokia as the new president and ceo. mr. elop shares a deep commitment to sustainability principles both as a global business leader and as a global citizen. The following Q and a provides more insight into his perspective on sustainability.

Q. What does sustainability mean for Nokia?
A. Sustainability is embedded in everything we do at Nokia, from the way we operate to the way we design products to the way we deliver services. by connecting more than 1.3 billion people around the world using Nokia phones, we also believe leadership calls for responsibility. as a result, sustainability is not a trend for Nokia, but rather it is our way of conducting business, which means encouraging sustainable development, supporting sustainable societies and enabling people to make sustainable choices.

Q.  What is Nokia’s approach to managing economic, environmental and social issues?
A. Incorporating sustainability into our strategy and targets means minimizing our negative impact and maximizing our positive impact - and we aim to be a leader in both. education, health, livelihood and the environment all present global sustainability challenges, and are all areas where Nokia can be part of a solution through our business and through our strategic social investments, which focus on mobile technologies.


Q. What broader/macro trends are affecting Nokia, and how do these  influence our sustainability priorities?
A. Around the globe, societies face challenging economic situations and adverse market conditions, which can limit an individual’s ability to access information that could enrich one’s life. We believe that access to communication and information is a right, not a privilege. it also is our belief that the democratizing effect of mobile communications, the Internet and information and communication technologies (ict) can strengthen public life and the role of citizens around the globe. through our mobile devices and services, Nokia can advance the democratization of information.

Q. How does sustainability support the overall Nokia strategy?
A. Our mission remains focused on connecting people. Recently, we announced a new strategy for Nokia, including a commitment to connect the next billion people to the internet. today, 80% of the world’s population lives within mobile networks range, yet only 20% of the world’s population has access to the wealth of information available on the internet. We have set clear business objectives, and we are delivering new technologies such as proxy browsers and SmS services that will help one billion people make their first connection to the Internet. Through this effort, people can reach information to improve their livelihoods and to adopt more sustainable lifestyles.

Q. What would you highlight as Nokia’s most important achievements in 2010?
A. In 2010, Nokia continued to make significant strides in sustainability. most notably:
?           We have reached and exceeded the climate targets we set for reduction of our facilities’ co2 emissions, and those for energy savings in buildings and reduction of power used by our device chargers.
?           Nokia is leading the industry in the use of sustainable materials, such as recycled metals, bio-plastics and bio-paints. Specifically,  the premium smartphones we launched in 2010 are some of our most environmentally-friendly products to date. in fact, the goodguide recognizes our contributions through their report rating cell phones based on health, environment and social attributes. The first 26 phones on the list are all Nokia products.
?           We have created a Nokia human rights approach based on the united Nations and other international human Rights principles and on our own human rights impact assessments. We are developing metrics on how to measure our performance and development in this area.
?           Nokia was rated the global technology Supersector leader for the second year in a row by the dow Jones Sustainability indexes. We also are consistently rated highly for our sustainability efforts in many other international rankings.


Q.  What have been the biggest challenges or where has Nokia fallen short of your expectations and targets in sustainability related matters?
A. We continue to face challenges around identifying available green energy. this is causing us to progress more slowly than we would like in sourcing electricity from renewable sources. Second, even though we are one of the leading companies in ethical sourcing, and we are actively involved in joint industry initiatives contributing to the work of industry bodies to identify potential conflict minerals, we have been  frustrated with the slowness in obtaining results. However, we are seeing encouraging progress as the results of third-party smelter audits become available to companies in our supply chain.

Q. What do you regard as Nokia’s key goals and challenges in 2011?
A. With our new business strategy, we announced a new path forward focused on growing and expanding our business globally. however, with this new strategy, we also need to rebalance our workforce. While it is our goal to implement our new strategy with as little adverse impact as possible, we will have significant job reductions that will negatively affect people and communities. This will be a difficult year for Nokia, and we are taking responsibility to care for the people we impact by creating an extensive support program.

Q. How do you see our employees’ role in delivering Nokia’s sustainability goals?
A. In the same way that sustainability is embedded in everything we do at Nokia, sustainability should be embedded in everything each one of us does at Nokia, at home and in our communities. On my first day at Nokia, i sent an email to each employee asking them two questions: what should we change at Nokia and what shouldn’t we change at Nokia. i received thousands of responses, and many suggestions for what we should change. but, unquestionably, the number one thing employees believe that we should not change is that Nokia “does good” around the world. deeply engrained, sustainability is a value by which Nokia and our employees live.

------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ Nokia 2011

HELLO THERE,

Nokia undertook a monumental shift in 2011, embarking upon a new strategy that reflected the sea change in the mobile industry and our intent to both stay ahead of, and capitalize on, the challenges facing us. I’m proud to say that even in a year of such big change, Nokia’s commitment to sustainability remained firm. In fact, it was further strengthened by the new strategy, where we saw clear evidence of progress before the year was out.

NEW STRATEGY

Nokia’s strategy is based around three main areas. First, we are partnering with Microsoft to deliver industry-leading smartphones using the Windows Phone operating system. In October we already saw the first fruit of our labors with the launch of the Nokia Lumia 800 and 710, and we followed this up with further Lumia launches, the Nokia Lumia 900 and 610 in early 2012. All our new Lumia phones fully meet our strict environmental requirements.

Second, we aim to connect the next billion to the Internet and information, bringing consumers with limited economic means the full benefits of mobile communications. The lines between a smartphone and a feature phone are blurring, and people, regardless of where they are based, want to do more with their phones.
At Nokia World we launched our Asha range of devices, which offer consumers  the smartphone-like features desired in developed markets ? touch screens, QWERTY keyboards and games ? but at lower price points. We augmented our Asha line with further launches in February, 2012.

Finally, Nokia is focusing on what we call future disruptions ? technology, business, and process areas that we have identified as having a profound influence on our industry. We will invest in these areas to ensure we are positioned as a leader in the next era of computing innovation
and remain ahead of the competition.

SUSTAINABILITY IN FOCUS

From a sustainability point of view, these three pillars all have a role to play in helping us achieve our goal: to make great, sustainable mobile products; devices that incorporate the best environmental and social practices and enable people to improve their lives. Perhaps the greatest resonance, however, can be found in the work we are doing to connect the next billion.

Nokia strongly believes that access to communication and information is a right, not a privilege. Mobile communications technology has the power to strengthen public life and the role of citizens around the globe, and it has proven time and again that it can democratize the spread of information. This belief, this ethos, runs deep within all of our employees, and we had numerous  examples of this on display in 2011.

In South Africa, we are very proud of the achievements of Nokia Mobile Mathematics, a free-of-charge service that turns your mobile device into a text and exercise book. Students get access to theory and a database of thousands of exercises, solutions, and competitions. Nokia has found that students who use the service show improvement in their grades, and teachers get a better understanding of their pupils’ strong and weak points. In 2011, 25,000 Grade
10 students benefited from the solution, and Nokia plans to double this in 2012 to reach 50,000 Grade 10 and 11 students.

Nokia is also active in driving environmental sustainability, working both with governments as well as with other multinational companies. According to the United Nations Environment Programme, about 50 million tonnes of electronic waste is generated each year, and E-waste is the fastest growing waste stream.

In Kenya, we commissioned a report in 2011 that showed only 14% of citizens are aware that mobile phones can be recycled, and only 2% actually recycle their old mobile phones. We followed this up with a campaign to drive awareness around mobile recycling, including advertising, press conferences, and an outreach to bloggers and citizens. Surveys show that Nokia is seen as the greenest brand in Kenya.

This is part of a broader global effort from us: Nokia operates the world’s largest voluntary take-back program for old mobile devices, with more than 6,000 collection points in almost 100 countries. We accept all brands of phones, which are then collected and sent to approved Nokia recyclers, where they are recycled in a sustainable manner. Today, all Nokia mobile phones are made using materials that can be recovered and reused as materials, or to generate energy in the recycling process.

But sustainability means more than this. Following our strategy announcement, we announced a number of planned changes to our operations and, unfortunately, this had an impact on our personnel. We responded  with the creation of the Bridge program, which aims to support employees during tough times by focusing on three areas in particular:
?    Re-employment of employees affected by Nokia’s change in strategy
?    The local communities where our operations have changed
?    The long-term of Nokia and how we create value for society at large

Bridge offers a wide range of possibilities, from traditional individual re-employment support to investments that encourage entrepreneurship, re-training and innovation which can fuel new growth for those communities impacted. The highest priority is the reemployment of Nokia employees, either inside or outside the company, or by promoting the creation of new businesses by those who are leaving. In Denmark, for example, thanks to Bridge we have seen the creation of over 20 start-ups following our announcement to close our facilities there, and the number is growing.

CHALLENGES REMAIN

These examples give just a taste of some of the work that we did during the year, and many more cases can be found in this report. I’d like to stress that while our change journey started in 2011, it is far from over. We entered 2012 in the heart of our transition, showing clear progress versus our strategy but operating in a fiercely competitive industry that is in constant flux.

On the sustainability front, challenges also remain. We are focused on honing the direction we give our suppliers and measuring their performance, ensuring that they closely follow our comprehensive set of Nokia Supplier Requirements for environmental and social performance.

And unfortunately the renewable energy market has developed more slowly than expected. That said, Nokia still showed progress on this front in 2011, installing fuel cells at our facility in Sunnyvale in the U.S. and a small biofuel station in Chennai, India. Nokia has increasingly purchased green electricity since 2006, and altogether, in 2011 our renewable electricity share was equal to 40%, which reduced our CO₂ emissions by 54,500 tonnes.

Like all Nokia employees, I take great pride in the work we do to improve people’s lives around the world. And yet, in many areas, we’ve only scratched the surface
in terms of what we can do. It’s the scale of this challenge that drives and motivates us on a daily basis, and I look forward to sharing more of our progress and good news with you in the future.

Best regards, 
Stephen Elop

------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------Nokia 2012

Nokia is passionate about doing good work for people, communities and the planet. It’s a purpose we share as a company, one that runs deep in our DNA and guides our daily actions. For the past 25 years, we’ve been connecting people ? first to one another through voice calls, then to information through the internet, and now we’re helping people sense the world around them through connected devices and services. 

I’m immensely proud of what the Nokia team has created just in the past 12 months ? from beautifully designed feature phones with battery life that lasts a month to our Nokia Asha smartphones that save up to 90% of data costs, from our flagship Nokia Lumia 920 smartphone with its remarkable imaging capabilities, to our suite of mapping and navigation services that enrich the location-based experience. Through differentiation in personal experiences, we strive to raise the bar for what consumers should expect from their mobile device.

As part of these efforts, I’m extremely proud that concern for the environment is at the heart of our business decisions. From production materials, labor policies and packaging to applications and services, Nokia has a long history of prioritizing sustainability in our daily work. To us, it’s not just the right way to do business: it’s the only way. This ethos extends to the work we do for our people, our communities and our planet.

OUR PEOPLE

In 2012, Nokia continued our transition as we focused our strategy and took steps to bring our workforce in line with a new way of working. In many respects, it was a challenging year as changes meant reductions in employee numbers and site closures. However, despite the challenges we faced, Nokia never wavered in its commitment to being a responsible employer. 

We invited employees impacted by restructuring to join our Bridge Program to help them start new careers inside or outside Nokia, or develop new skills through continued education. Some even opted to start their own company with Nokia grants. As a result, by the end of 2012, nearly 1,000 new businesses were created as a result of the Bridge Program ? an enormous success.

As our strategy led us to collocate resources and align sites closer to our suppliers, we faced some difficult decisions, notably the closure of our Salo factory in Finland. Nonetheless, we are so proud that in Salo, a site with rich Nokia heritage, our research-and-development teams continue to flourish, bringing many critical technologies and products to life. 

Today Nokia operates seven production facilities worldwide, and we can confidently say in each of those locations, the working conditions and treatment of our employees is world-class. But we will not stop there. We want to go further and ensure people working for our suppliers and all the way across the complex supply chain are also treated with the utmost dignity and respect.

OUR COMMUNITIES

Nokia doesn’t just make products for one end of the market. We want to give everyone a choice regardless of geographic or personal constraints, and during 2012, we launched a number of important products that demonstrated this goal. Part of our strategy is to connect the next billion people to the internet, and as these newcomers appear on the grid, we want to help empower them as citizens of the digital economy. We’re doing this by giving them access to learning and knowledge through their devices, opportunities for self-improvement, as well as resources that will help them better provide for their families and serve their communities.

Internet access on a mobile phone provides opportunities for digital newcomers to engage in social media, create personal content, and share it across networks for the first time. All of this enables the free flow of ideas, personal expression and innovation. Yet, at the same time, we are mindful that many digital newcomers are less aware of their online privacy and security. In 2012, Nokia and UNICEF formed a partnership to help educate people on how to stay safe online. The project has initially focused on children and teens in South Africa, Kenya and Zambia. 

Also in 2012, we continued to expand Nokia Life, our SMS-based information service to help people make better decisions about their health, education, agriculture and even entertainment. Since it launched in 2009, Nokia Life has reached close to 100 million people in China, India, Indonesia and Nigeria, with expansion to Kenya in March 2013. Nokia Life+, its cloud-based counterpart that also launched in 2012, reaches millions more in 21 countries. 

All in all, we want to make our products usable for all people. We’re proud that in 2012 we also made great strides in advancing ease of access to mobile devices, notably our Lumia smartphones, for those with hearing, vision or dexterity impairments. 

OUR PLANET 

Doing good work in our communities means being a responsible environmental advocate, a belief that impacts our product making. In 2012, we introduced bio-plastics and recycled metals, among other environmental innovations, to our Lumia smartphones. 

We’ve also remained firm in our commitment to minimize adverse environmental effects that may result from our operations, production or usage of our products. We assess the environmental impact of our products throughout their lifecycle ? from the initial sourcing of materials, to manufacturing, to packaging, to transportation, and the product use by individual consumers. We even consider the impact after the end of the product’s life to encourage recycling. 

As a result, Nokia has led the way in energy-efficiency, safe materials and reducing electronic waste. 

This thinking extends to how we can help the consumer him or herself lead a more sustainable lifestyle by the use of technology and applications. One example is our work in location-based services. In 2012, we united our location, mapping and navigation offerings under a new brand called, HERE. The “HERE Transport” application (or, in the United States, “HERE Transit”), is a public transportation application for our Lumia smartphones that helps people reduce their environmental footprint by selecting the most efficient travel option, whether by bus or train, in more than 700 cities across 50 countries. For drivers, the same principle applies with “HERE Drive,” a complementary application that lets you choose the most efficient route to save on the costs of gas and reduce C02 emissions. 

As we move forward, we are focused on reducing our own energy and greenhouse gas emissions across Nokia’s own operations. We’re very proud that in 2012 more than 40% of Nokia’s electricity came from renewable sources, either generated on site or purchased, making it a record year. However, we did consume more energy per product produced ? something we aim to address in 2013. In our factories, we reduced waste by 22% per product, and our waste utilization efforts helped us reuse or recycle 98% of byproducts ? an impressive feat for our manufacturing teams. 

Sustainability matters ? it’s a common thread that impacts people, communities and planet. Nokia is passionate about doing our part. We’re proud of what we’ve accomplished together in 2012 and look onward as we strive to do it even better.

------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------Nokia 2013

2013 was a remarkable year for Nokia. Through two major transactions, Nokia has transformed itself. In the first, we became full owner of our Networks business, known until recently as NSN. In the second, we divested the mobile devices business which emerged over three decades to become a household name. This transaction was completed in April 2014.

Going forward, Nokia will focus on the technologies of the future through three strong businesses: Networks, which offers network infrastructure software, hardware and services; HERE, which provides location intelligence; and Technologies, through which we pursue advanced technology development and licensing.

A lot is changing for Nokia. However, amid all that is new, some things are not changing. Most fundamentally, we will continue to strive to create value for people and our planet like we have been doing for a long time. This means being responsible in everything we do. It also means creating and shaping technologies that can make our lives better.

At Nokia, we know our technology can be part of the solution in many of global challenges. Our mobile technology has been used to provide access to learning materials in hard-to-reach areas. It has been used for collecting and sending real-time data to prevent diseases as well as mapping water points in water-scarce areas. And it has brought the Internet to hundreds of millions of people who have never had access to a desktop computer.

For a long time, we have talked about “connecting people” through mobile communications and what that has meant to people around the world. Well, with our deep experience in connecting people, we are ready for a new world of technology whose impact on our lives can be just as profound. Over the next 10 years billions of connected devices will converge into intelligent and programmable systems that will have the potential to improve lives in a vast number of areas: time and availability, transportation and resource consumption, learning and work, health and wellness, and many more. With our three businesses and position as one of the world’s largest software companies, Nokia is well placed to meet our goal to be a leader in the technologies for a world where everybody and everything is connected.

So, there is much more to come from us in the future.As we go forward, you will see us behave as a responsible business guided by the same principles which we have held dear for a long time: Valuing people in everything we do; Being green and clean, Unleashing the potential of technology for good; and Making change happen together.

Of course, actions are more important than words. Our actual performance has to reflect those principles. In the following pages, you can read about our achievements as well as what we believe were our biggest challenges during 2013.

All in all, I am pleased with the progress we made during the year in terms of our sustainability targets and the external recognition we have received for our performance. Among the highlights, we continued improving our performance on environmental measures throughout the value chain; we made progress on matters of occupational health and safety; we further improved the accessibility features of our devices; and, together with our partners, we helped improve access to education. In addition, upon announcing that the vast majority of our Devices & Services business would transfer to Microsoft, we went to lengths to engage with our employees regularly and extensively to ensure they had the information they needed, irrespective of their location or role in the company. I am pleased with the outcome here.

I’d like to end with mention of an important indicator in our annual internal survey: some 83% of our employees responded that they consider Nokia to be socially and environmentally responsible. For a company that has gone through a major transformation, I believe this is good going. This is the way we want to run our business in future as well.

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- SAP 2001 

DEAR STOCKHOLDERS, PARTNERS, AND CUSTOMERS,

During the past year, we were able to strengthen our relationships with existing customers and also gain new customers, which made up almost a third of our business. This con?rms that the business model we have sustained during our now thirty years of doing business is robust and ?exible. And the strong, sustained interest in our modern e-business solution, mySAP.com®, demonstrates how important this is, especially in terms of new customers. Within the context of this challenging business environment, SAP was able to con?rm its leadership position with a 17% increase in sales.

For the ?rst half of 2002, we do not foresee any major change in the market conditions, but do expect demand to increase signi?cantly by the end of the year.

The last several years have seen SAP position itself as a worldwide leader in the market of e-business solutions. By de?ning the new, New Economy at the high point of the dot-com bubble, we pushed for a return to the true, timeless values of successful business: ef?ciency, customer satisfaction, and pro?tability. Today, SAP solutions play an important role in helping companies increase ef?ciency.

With our strategic initiatives in the areas of customer relationship management (CRM), supply chain management (SCM), enterprise resource planning (ERP), and exchanges and portals, SAP continues to invest in technologies that protect our customers’ software investments and ensure the success of a “best-run business.”

In our modern world of doing business, complexity is growing and this is re?ected in the corresponding complexity of a company’s  IT landscape. Our customers, therefore, need effective support from us for dealing with these ever-increasing IT needs.

The big topic this year is open, integrated platforms. Openness is required because no software provider can meet every need of every customer with one suite of solutions. This means that, in the best interest of our customers, solutions from partners and even competitors must be able to be integrated. And here we mean integrating business processes across product, system, and enterprise boundaries. This goes far beyond just connecting the data; it requires a full understanding of the underlying business processes to effectively connect the systems.

SAP is a leader in this area and has been a global driver of these technologies and the open standards and transparent interfaces they require.

We recognized this fact early on and already offer products that ful?ll these requirements and help our customers gain real advantages. For example, our mySAP.com® e-business platform is based on technologies that support these open standards. Companies can use this foundation to implement and combine all types of applications easily and ?exibly ? both SAP systems and solutions from other providers. This leaves customers free to use any combination
of products, whatever they require that 
best meets their needs. SAP stands ready with an offering that includes both complete solutions and customer- speci?c applications.

It is important to also note that employees of our customers see the world differently from their IT department.  They aren’t interested in knowing which software products were implemented
and how they work together. What employees want is individualized access to the information they need for their role in the company, available using an intuitive and personalized user interface. Portals are the best answer to this challenge, which is why we bought one of the leading providers of portal technologies, TopTier, last year. We took their knowledge and resources and combined them with those of our teams dealing with business intelligence, knowledge management, and the workplace. We also added the expert consultants in those areas to this new company. All in all, we have created the leading provider of portals, SAP Portals.

SAP also expanded its strategic partnership with Commerce One, the specialist for electronic marketplaces on the Internet. We did this because we recognized that the technical basis for integrating business processes across company boundaries is very
close to the technologies needed to run these electronic marketplaces. This
is one of the ?rst areas where Web services are used. These are applications that allow a company to integrate other applications across company boundaries. We see Web services as a very important addition to SAP’s solution offering.

Along these same lines, we have extended our applications for CRM, SCM, and product lifecycle management (PLM) to support collaboration in heterogeneous
IT environments.  And because all of these new applications can only be implemented when integrated in a strong back end, it’s no surprise that the traditional ERP market, which SAP
already dominates, is marked for growth.

Today, SAP is a leader in solutions both for portals and exchanges, and for SCM, PLM, ERP, and important areas of CRM. But our leadership is not only in market share. An important measure of our success is our own requirement that the mySAP.com solutions are of the highest quality and provide our customers with the optimum solution.

Our entire business is focused on building and maintaining long-term relationships with our customers. We work closely with our customers because it gives us not only an enormous amount of critical real- world experience, but also a feeling for what the market really wants. This ensures our customers’ investments are safe for the long-term and provides them with a substantial return on investment (ROI).

We know that our success during this dif?cult year was only possible due to the hard work of our global employees and management as well as that of our customers and partners, all working
toward a common goal. We’d like to take this opportunity to thank all of them. Our investors were also put to the test this year. We’d like to thank you for your trust in us and hope that you will continue to accompany us on our road to success.

We have con?rmed our excellent position and the perspectives look very good.
We could very well see a repeat of our global success in the early 1990s, back when we wrote the book on ERP software.

Sincerely,


Hasso Plattner
Co-chairman and CEO, SAP AG


Henning  Kagermann
Co-chairman and CEO, SAP AG

----------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Supplementary Information 

No one could  have thought  at the beginning of 2001 that we would  be faced  with  the terrible events  of September 11 and the resulting worldwide consequences. What we could see coming,  however, was the slowing  of the economy, which  began  in the U.S.  and worked its way  around  the world. Nothing seemed  to be able to stop this recessionary atmosphere, neither  growth in Europe  nor in Asia.  While  our competitors in the business software market were  dealing  with,  in some cases, dramatic reductions in sales and the related loss of market share,  SAP®  demonstrated that it is a long-term, reliable business partner for our customers. And we have a strong  market share in all relevant business  arenas.
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- SAP 2002

Dear shareholders, customers and partners,
The year 2002, with its considerable difficulties, proved to be a challenging one for SAP. Continued economic uncertainty around the globe, the long-term effects of the terrorist attacks in the United States, and accounting scandals at the beginning of the year greatly influenced consumer and investor behavior. Numerous companies had to adapt their planning over and over again. And yet, SAP again performed exceedingly well in 2002. In fact, the fourth quarter of 2002 saw SAP achieve the best earnings in its 30-year history. 
The greatest challenge was adjusting to slight or even no revenue growth ? instead of the 15% growth originally expected ? while increasing profitability. SAP has improved overall efficiency in the long term, not with massive reductions in staff, but through careful cost-cutting measures and rationalization of our global infrastructure. More intensive customer support, optimized product quality, and research and development spending remaining at the same levels as the previous year show that the savings were not to the detriment of our customers. 
GROWING MARKET SHARE
SAP has proven its ability to adapt effectively and, compared to our competitors, is now in a better position than ever before. SAP’s market share is now more than that of our next five largest competitors combined. Our overall customer-satisfaction levels have increased in every region and we are outperforming our competitors in this area. 
CUSTOMOER-FOCUSED INNOVATION 
SAP develops solutions that best meet our customer’s needs. Today’s customers require quick return on investment (ROI), long-term security, and lower total cost of ownership (TCO) from their information technology (IT) investments. SAP delivered highly innovative products to the market in 200, leveraging our business and technological expertise. 
The development of SAP NetWeaver™ and SAP Entreprise Services Architecture are the most significant technological advances since the move from SAP R/2* to SAP R/3*. SAP NetWeaver integrates heterogeneous IT systems and brings together business processes, information, and users, across company boundaries. The possibility of integrating other technologies, such as Microsoft NET and IBM WebSphere ensures flexible IT infrastructures. This means that customers can reduce the complexity of their IT infrastructures and reduce operating cost in the long term. 
SAP NetWeaver is the technological basis for SAP Entreprise Services Architecture, and enables the design of state-of-the-art, all encompassing solutions for specific business tasks. With this technology, existing applications can be used more effectively and IT investments can be protected. Building on the SAP NetWeaver platform, we have enhanced nearly all the solutions in mySAP Business Suite (formerly mySAP.com) with new industry-specific functions. In 2002, we also developed the latest releases of mySAP Customer Relationship Management, mySAP Supplier Relationship Management, and other solutions. 
During the past year, we further developed a generation of new software solutions that are particularly easy to configure: the new SAP cross applications (SAP x Apps™). These solutions are built on our customers’ heterogeneous applications, use their datasets, and bundle all the functions that the user requires. This facilitates the deployment of new functions by using existing systems and applications. 
In addition, SAP established a new small and midsize businesses unit as an important step toward opening up an enormous market segment that is experiencing growth worldwide. With SAP Business One™ and mySAP All-in-One™, we have positioned SAP as a global brand for small and midsize businesses. 
INCREASED PRODUCTIVITY 
Our solutions are the core element of our customers’ business processes. The functional breadth and depth as well as the cost/benefit ratio of our solutions are crucial to the success of our customers. Our approach to quality is not limited to software components but extends to the capabilities of the entire solution. By further increasing efficiency, we have succeeded in delivering products of outstanding quality to the marker. We have also improved consulting, service, and support, thus enabling us to increase the number of customer systems going live by 8% in 2002. This was achieved without increasing support costs. 
TRUSTED ADVISOR
By raising the level of quality, SAP managed to further increase its role as a trusted advisor, despite customer’s limited IT budgets. Today, over 19,300 customers worldwide are not only increasing efficiency with their SAP solutions but also trust SAO as a strong, strategic partner offering them  in-depth knowledge to best address their specific needs. Key aspects of being a trusted advisor are reliability and independence, even in a difficult market economy. In 2002, SAP succeeded in increasing its profitability and focusing its organization more strongly on market demands. Therefore, the Company has created a strong foundation for maintaining its independence ? now and in the future. 
THE YEAR AHEAD
The overall economic climate is not likely to experience s strong recovery in 2003. On the contrary, decisions about IT spending will continue to be based on the added value IT can contribute, and spending is unlikely to increase. However, demand will continue to grow for business application software that optimizes critical business processes and minimizes investment risks. 
SAP used 2002 to adapt to these new customer requirements. Our solutions, technology, and architecture provide business value to customers. This year, we will also focus on marketing issue-specific packaged solutions. These solutions will include predefined combinations of applications and services designed to handle specific business problems. The packages solutions will minimize implementation risks for customers and offer faster return on investment. 
Overall, we have created the foundation for driving growth and gaining greater market share in 2003. Two factors will ensure that SAP can remain as stable as possible in an uncertain market: our comprehensive product portfolio with its powerful, integrative technologies, and our flexible, optimized infrastructure. In 2003, SAP will once again concentrate on efficiently deploying resources, further reducing costs to increase profitability, and strategically investing in research and development so that we can ensure our future growth. 
BUSINESS INTEGRITY 
Responsible corporate governance has been a fundamental value at SAP since the Company was founded. By expanding on its Principles of Corporate Governance in 2002, SAP has shown the importance it places on transparent communication. 
ADAPTING, INNOVATING, WINNING
SAP’s corporate culture was essential to our excellent performance in a difficult year. The flexibility and innovative thinking of our 29,000 employees worldwide are what makes SAP stand out. We would like to take this opportunity to thank them, our partners, and our customers for their contribution and dedication. 
We also thank you, our investors, for continuing to believe in SAP despite the prevailing uncertainties. We look forward to your continued support. Thanks to profitable applications for our customers, an open technology platform, and our investment in the future, SAP is well positioned for the years ahead.
Sincerely,
HassoPlattner, Co-Chairman and CEO, SAP AG
Henning Kagermann, Co-Chairman and CEO, SAP AG 

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- SAP 2003

Dear Shareholders, Customers, Partners, and Colleagues,

At the beginning of 2003, SAP, like many of our customers, was uncertain about the economic and political situation. Our strategic goals were therefore to significantly improve earnings per share and increase SAP’s market share, despite forecasts of a stagnant market. We executed well on this strategy and, despite the currency impact of a strong euro, were able to exceed guidance by reporting record operating income, earnings per share, and margin growth. Our gains in market share, measured against our four major peers, was also greater than ever before. The SAP share price increased 76% over the year and outperformed the German DAX by 39 percentage points, and the Goldman Sachs Software Index by 26 percentage points.

A CHALLENGING YEAR 
In 2003, business priorities for companies worldwide included pressures for better corpo- rate governance; focus on core business, primarily cost controls, lean operations, and efficiency; and ensuring that customers were at the center of business. Companies sought to increase prof- itability by running their businesses more effectively, and wanted to ensure that they had the flexibility to exploit the new opportunities that an economic recovery would create. Technology was considered crucial to achieving these business goals. However, information technology (IT)  investments  needed to make a faster return than in the past and so this aspect was closely moni- tored in all projects. Companies were looking for, and will continue to look for, technology solutions to solve real business problems ? gone are the days of technology for technology’s sake. Decision-makers thus preferred manageable, lower risk projects with a swifter return on invest- ment (ROI), which led to an overall decline in deal size, a trend that SAP successfully managed
to offset through a 13% increase in the number of deals signed during  2003.

Software vendors were under greater pressure to deliver ever-evolving, future- proof solutions to satisfy customers’ more exacting demands. 2003 saw substantial industry con- solidation and, in the business software sector, the effects were far-reaching. While SAP may
now  face fewer competitors, the competitive landscape has become much  more fierce. We expe- rienced unprecedented pricing pressures in 2003 but were able to benefit from good, long-estab- lished relationships with customers and our image as a reliable partner. As many of our competi- tors were looking internally to their own operations and faced self-induced challenges created through mergers and acquisitions, SAP was able to sharpen its focus on meeting customers’ needs. For example, despite the strong currency impact on our license revenues and an overall focus on growing operating margin, we increased spending on research and development (R&D) by 9 % year-on-year. Our commitment to innovating for our customers was recognized by Wall Street Journal Europe, which gave its European Innovation Award to SAP for our work in radio frequency identification (RFID) technology.

We restructured the Company to enable us to resolutely pursue our goals and react flexibly to changes in IT buying patterns. A management transition took place when
Hasso Plattner, co-founder and former co-CEO, decided to leave the day-to-day operations
of SAP to dedicate his time to the mid- and long-term strategic direction of the Company. This transition was effected smoothly, and the Company continued to execute on the strategy that Hasso and I developed during  our five years of shared leadership as co-CEOs of SAP. At the Annual General Shareholders’ Meeting in May, you appointed Hasso to the Supervisory Board and he was immediately named as its Chairperson.

MARKET LEADERSHIP 2003 was another difficult year for the software industry, yet SAP continued to strengthen its global market leadership position. Translated into U.S. dollars, the reporting currency of our main competitors, we increased software license revenue 12% while the rest of the market saw another decrease (3 %). SAP’s worldwide share of the market against its four largest competitors was 59 % at the end of the fourth quarter of 2003, compared with 51 % at the end of the fourth quarter of 2002. In the United States, we became the market leader through a 2003 increase in market share of 14 %.

We also achieved market leadership in our major product lines. In particular, we accomplished our goal of becoming the number one customer relationship management vendor globally by offering the market a superior solution. With mySAP Customer Relationship Management (mySAP CRM), our customers enjoy the benefits of best-of-breed software while also benefiting from the lower total cost of ownership (TCO) offered by an integrated suite of solutions.

Our clear message delivered to customers at our annual SAPPHIRE conferences was a call to invest in innovation. We demonstrated that smart IT contributes to a company’s bottom line, providing ROI while reducing total cost of ownership, specifically in times of economic uncertainty. This message has resonated well in the market and has helped to put
SAP back into the number one position.

SAP’s corporate culture and our highly motivated employees were essential to our excellent performance. Our 30.000 employees worldwide are known for their flexibility, idealism, and innovative thinking. We would like to take this opportunity to thank them, our partners, and our customers for their contribution and dedication.

TECHNOLOGY LEADERSHIP
In 2003, one of SAP’s most  significant accomplishments was the launch of Enter- prise Services Architecture and SAP NetWeaver technology platform, the technical enabler of this service-oriented architecture for adaptive business solutions. SAP NetWeaver helps compa- nies achieve growth through continuous change and innovation. It allows our customers to integrate existing assets into their SAP landscapes for further ROI and lower TCO. It also helps them to quickly automate new business processes that foster change. And, it provides business and financial transparency by integrating previously “siloed” business processes across SAP and  non-SAP applications as well as between in-house and outsourced applications. SAP NetWeaver opens up a new dimension: It elevates an existing IT infrastructure from an enabler of work to an enabler of change, and makes change sustainable through reduced risk and contained cost.

In an effort to better align the SAP development organization to deliver on the SAP NetWeaver promise and to continually add customer-oriented innovation to our offerings, SAP undertook its most significant corporate realignment ever during the summer of 2003.
The Strategic Cross-Organizational Realignment initiative created business solution groups to increase our focus on developing and delivering tailored industry solutions. We also created the Application Platform & Architecture group to set architectual standards and develop reusable software components.

THE YEAR AHEAD Our success in 2003 is not a one-time, short-term story. SAP does not operate in one-year cycles; our strategy is for the long-term. The overall economic outlook for 2004 is far more opti- mistic and SAP will focus strongly on increasing license revenue, while also continuing our focus on increasing profitability. We will execute on our strategy of offering an innovative product portfolio that helps customers identify and capitalize on growth opportunities through better business processes. We will continue to invest in business solutions for small and midsize businesses in order to improve our products and their delivery to new market segments. And, we will continue to invest in research and development, develop future growth areas of our busi- ness, and drive for market-wide adoption of SAP NetWeaver.

SAP has proven that it can outperform the market in both good and bad times. With the strengths highlighted above, our ongoing commitment to our customers’ success, and an overall better economic outlook for the year, SAP expects to benefit more than our competi- tion from the upswing in the economy. Analysts have expressed confidence that SAP will con- tinue to increase market share regardless of how quickly overall IT investment recovers, and that the Company will be able to continue to deliver high growth in earnings per share. We agree
with this analysis and look forward to sharing our success with you.


Sincerely,

Henning Kagermann
Chairman and CEO, SAP AG

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- SAP 2004

Dear Shareholders, Customers, Partners, and Colleagues,

When we announced at the beginning of 2004 that we would grow our software license revenue by 10 %, many analysts thought this was going to be very difficult ? if not impossible. 2003 had been a challenging year for SAP and the market, but we demonstrated our strength and proved that we were on the right path. That is why we were confident in our predictions for 2004. Now, as we look back at the year, we can say we met, and in some cases exceeded, our goals. While in 2003 our software revenues declined by 6 %, we have now returned to double-digit growth ? with a 10 % increase ? despite the rapid weakening of the U.S. dollar. In fact, if you adjust our 2004 software license revenue by currency, it grew by 13 %. In U.S. dollars, we grew our software revenue 19 %, while the rest of the market grew by only 4 %.

LEADING THE INDUSTRY  
2004 was truly a year to remember for SAP, a major turning point in our more than 30-year history. We solidified our leadership position in the IT industry, reiterated our focus on our customers, and continued to drive our vision for the future of IT.

We demonstrated this leadership position time and time again in 2004. One  of the major highlights was the general availability at the end of the third quarter of 2004 of our leading application and integration platform, SAP NetWeaver. We also delivered the latest version of our flagship product mySAP ERP, the successor to SAP R/3. This is an important milestone because
it is the first service-oriented business application on the market based on SAP NetWeaver. In addition, we have a clear maintenance strategy in place to help our customers smoothly transi- tion from  SAP R/3 to mySAP ERP and therefore improve their productivity.
Our excellent results across the globe and across our product portfolio reflect the fact that our customers  view us as the viable and leading expert in helping them prepare for the
ever-changing business environment in which we operate: SAP’s overall customer satisfaction is at an all-time high. Regional successes include 38 % constant-currency software growth in the United States and success in emerging markets, such as China, India, and Russia. Product high- lights include our now number-one position in all major solution areas: enterprise resource planning, customer relationship management, supply chain management, supplier relationship management, and product life-cycle management, as well as our success in several key industries.

Over the past year, our strength is also an indication of our successful transition to a volume business model: The number of contracts from the direct sales channel  increased 12 % year-on-year and from the indirect channel the number increased by 47 % year-on-year.
Even more importantly,  in 2004 we demonstrated our leadership not only in the large enterprise segment, but also in the midmarket ? 31 % of SAP’s total order entry comes from companies
with less than 2,500 employees or less than US$1 billion in revenue.  Based on these numbers,
SAP generated more business in the midmarket segment than any of our peer group competitors generated in total.

In addition, our pro-forma operating margin (excluding stock-based compensation and acquisition-related charges), a ratio that indicates management’s ability to control costs and expenses relative to business operations, increased by one percentage point to 28 %. This increase is particularly noteworthy  given the continued investments we made in innovation and research and development throughout the year, as well as the increases in global headcount. We added sales and marketing personnel to capitalize on opportunities and leveraged low-cost locations for both R&D and support services.

DRIVING INNOVATION 
Our continuing success is based on two key factors: a sharp focus on our customers and a winning product portfolio based on a solid road map for the future.
In dialog with our customers, we have come to the mutual conclusion that future business drivers will be the ability to quickly adapt the business strategy, speed of innovation, and time to market.  We see IT as a strategic tool and a powerful enabler of this changing business environment. To succeed, however, requires a new type of IT architecture, one that is as flexible as the business itself and that can be quickly adapted as needed.

A WINNING PRODUCT PORTFOLIO SAP recognized early on that this must be a service- oriented architecture, allowing companies to easily create and change business applications to support their strategy. Our vision is Enterprise  Services Architecture, introduced in 2003 along with an ambitious road map. Enterprise Services Architecture provides a flexible IT framework that combines our business expertise with the power of Web services. We are focused on deliver- ing this new architecture because we believe it will not only help our customers be much more
flexible and deploy technology more strategically, but it will mean we are better positioned for the road ahead.

To be able to create Enterprise Services Architecture, however, requires the right plat- form. SAP NetWeaver  is the enabler of Enterprise Services Architecture that allows us to take our applications and infrastructure to the next level, and we are right in the middle of that journey.

In 2004, we hit several milestones and reiterated our commitment. We now have more than 1,500 SAP NetWeaver reference customers, including companies such as Intel, Johnson & Johnson, and Siemens. We also have 1,300 mySAP ERP customer contracts. This is significantly ahead of our own expectations.

In 2005 and beyond, SAP NetWeaver will be continuing its evolutionary course to a business process platform. Customers and industry experts acknowledge that the combination of a composition platform and service-enabled components  creates the ideal business platform
for an economy that is driven by the need for growth through innovation. SAP’s business process platform supports operational processes that enable efficiency and business integrity, while
also providing tools that allow customers to compose highly differentiating business scenarios that can evolve in real time along with their strategies. With a business process platform, com- panies can easily reuse existing software capabilities without having to write customized software code. By 2007, our goal is to deliver all of mySAP Business Suite and all industry solutions on
this industry-leading business process platform.

ORGANIZATION FOLLOWS STRATEGY To ensure we have the best organization structure in place to accelerate our growth in February 2005, we have realigned the responsibilities of the SAP Executive Board members along a solution value chain. The value chain begins with a new idea or breakthrough innovation, followed by product development; the production process  and quality assurance; service, support, and maintenance; marketing, sales, training, and consulting; and finally implementation by the customer. The new structure will improve the speed of decision making and focus within each Board area. With the structure, SAP has all
the ingredients in place for successful execution of our strategy: the right technology, the right product portfolio, and the right organization.

INVESTING IN SUCCESS With a clear commitment to our customers, we are continuing our long history of leadership and growth in shaping the future of IT.
SAP’s long-term goal is to build on this leadership and, together with our customers, to redefine the technology landscape with our powerful vision of a service-enabled business process platform. Our investment in this platform, the culmination of our Enterprise Services Architec- ture strategy, enhances our competitive position and opens up new opportunities for revenue and profit growth. 2005 will be a year of investment  in the success of this company. Without our tireless employees, however, we would not be where we are today. We would like to thank them for their contribution and extreme dedication.
This is truly an exciting time to be leading such a dynamic company and I am pleased to share our continued success with you.

Sincerely,

Henning Kagermann
Chairman and CEO, SAP AG

----------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Supplementary Information 

Success
“Success is the ongoing realization of new ideas ? and their validation by the market.”

Money 
“We continue to invest in future growth opportunities while remaining committed to increase our profitability.”

Innovation
“Innovation is the springboard of success ? for our customers and for SAP.”

Solutions
“SAP’s innovative solutions don’t appear from nowhere. They emerge from a synthesis of customers’ needs and drive tangible economic value.”

People
“Provide a culture of openness, excellence, and integrity, and people will respond with their best work.”

Service
“Service does not end at purchase. We believe in forging long-term partnerships.”

Customer
“We are privileged to serve tens of thousands of customers ? but we strive to make each one as successful as if they are our only customer.”

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- SAP 2005

Dear Shareholders, Customers, Partners, and Colleagues,

2005 was another outstanding year for SAP. We demonstrated that organic growth is not only possible in our industry, but that it is also a successful strategy to benefit our customers, partners, and shareholders. Customer satisfaction is at an all-time high and we extended our peer group share more significantly than in previous years. Companies recognize SAP as a strong, reliable partner and trusted advisor for innovating business with IT. This is all reflected in the 17% increase of the SAP share in 2005, which outperformed the Goldman Sachs GSTI Software Index.
2006 will be another cornerstone year for the company as we invest in people, new products, and new sales channels to expand our addressable market to US$70 billion by 2010.

When I look back over the past year, I am pleased with what we have accomplished. In spite of the challenging environment, we significantly outperformed our direct competitors and the worldwide software market. In addition, we extended our leadership in the small and midsize enterprise segment. I attribute  our continued success to three long-term, core SAP values: our customer-centric approach, the excellence of our product offering, and a clear focus on delivering on our promises to our customers.

HIGHLIGHTS OF 2005
In 2005, we proved we are very well positioned, with our invest- ments in organic growth showing immediate return. We grew our software license revenue by 18% to €2.8 billion  and the number of deals increased by 22%. Every region contributed to our success, most strongly in North America and Asia-Pacific. Our profitability rose by 0.5 percentage points to a pro-forma operating margin of 28.3%, while  our pro-forma earnings per share were €5.01, an increase of 14%.

On the product side, we accelerated our progress toward enterprise  services architecture (ESA), our leading vision for the next wave of computing now becoming a reality. We were the first software provider worldwide to develop and deliver our entire mySAP Business Suite solutions based on this new architecture, and more customers than expected are migrating to mySAP ERP.

By industry, we made significant gains throughout the year, with strong growth in process industries and a record increase of 63% in retail.
To support our delivery of business solutions, weare extending our worldwide development partner ecosystem. Using our technology, these companies are developing complementary solutions to our own. Through this process of co-innovation, customers have access to an even greater number of innovative solutions. Today, we have nearly 1,000 independent software vendors (ISVs) supporting our SAP NetWeaver platform, with 360,000 members in the SAP Developer Network. Three of the most significant partner- ships that we announced in 2005 were our partnership with Microsoft on Project Mendocino, with Siemens on healthcare, and with Intel to offer a high-performance analytics packaged solution available on HP and IBM technology.

To round out our product offering for our customers, we made some small acquisitions (Triversity and Khimetrics in retail, Lighthammer in manufacturing, and TomorrowNow
in maintenance and support of non-SAP systems). In coopera- tion with TomorrowNow, we signed nearly 200 customers for our Safe Passage program.

We also strengthened our dialog with our key share- holders. As in previous years, SAP set itself the highest objec- tives for transparency in our communication with the financial community. Investors around the world provided us with positive feedback on our long-term strategy.

Transparency is also a theme of SAP’s corporate social responsibility initiatives. We believe that the most effective form of engagement is to draw on our own unique strengths and expertise. That is why, along with transparency, we are focusing on education, good governance, and community development.

Our results this year again demonstrate that companies are seeking a long-term  partnership with a software vendor they can trust. In this Annual Report, you will find four examples of companies around the world that are innovating through SAP solutions to be more efficient, manage complex businesses, support high quality of products, and provide fast access to information.

I would like to emphasize that our success would not be what it is without the exceptional dedication and creativity of our employees. Located close to our customers in over 50 countries, they are the reason we can offer the best products of the highest quality. In 2005, we added  to our diverse talent pool with more than 3,600 employees hired worldwide.

SAP’S WINNING FORMUL A
SAP has always been at the forefront of business software, a market we created almost 35 years ago. To ensure we continue to deliver best-in-class products, we look not only at what
our customers need today, but also at what they will need over the next five to ten years. Our research has shown that com- panies will increasingly need to be able to flexibly change their business models to gain a competitive advantage. This will only be possible through the right IT: a new generation  of IT architecture  we call ESA. This new architecture revolutionizes not only how software is developed  but also how it is imple- mented and used.

2006: A CORNERSTONE  YEAR FOR SAP
We have set high goals for ourselves over the next  few years. SAP has a strong product pipeline and an excellent market position. In 2006, we will add new strategic products to make our offering more attractive for users in enterprises of all sizes. In essence,  2006 sets the foundation for our 2010 ambitions to expand our addressable market from US$30 billion to US$70 billion by 2010.

Due to the increased enthusiasm for our next-genera- tion technology with over 300 customers in our ESA Adoption Program, we have expanded our product road map for 2006 with additional proof points. One focus this year will be to evolve our SAP NetWeaver platform into a Business Process Platform, the flexible IT environment required to support the business models of the future. We will also launch new products for the midmarket and continue to expand our eco- system to involve ever more partners in our next-generation technology.

THANK YOU
In closing, I would like to say thank you to those who are accompanying us on our journey: our customers, partners, shareholders, and employees. We will continue to deliver high- quality business software that meets and exceeds the expecta- tions of our customers, we are creating long-term value for
our shareholders, and we are well positioned for the future. With IT that provides business model flexibility, we can enable companies of all sizes to reach new heights. Let us travel this road together.


Sincerely,
Henning Kagermann
Chairman and CEO, SAP AG

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- SAP 2006

Dear Shareholders, customers, partners, and colleagues,
2006 was an important year for SAP. We achieved a number of significant milestones towards our long-term growth targets for 2010. We proved our ability to drive new innovation through the expansion of our product portfolio and through the global availability of the first business process platform. A 10% increase in revenues and a 27% increase in adjusted net income demonstrate that SAP continues to be a growth company that consistently delivers outstanding results. 
We set ambitious targets for 2006 and were not able to meet all of them. We achieved 12% software revenue growth in constant currencies. Though short of our 15% target, this was an excellent result in comparison with our market peers. We increased our market share in all regions and against our main competitors. 
In 2007 we will continue our strategy of organic growth based on our own innovation and co-innovation with customers and partners. As our customers’ ability to innovate becomes increasingly dependent on IT, our ability to innovate faster than our competitors will become ever more important, and we have proved that an organic growth strategy is the best way to sustain our first-mover advantage. We will successfully deliver on the product road map we announced three years ago and we will introduce a new software category that represents a radical innovation in both product and business models in our industry. 
HIGHLIGHTS OF 2008
2006 was a year of strong growth on all fronts. We achieved double-digit growth in software license revenue across all regions. Our profitability rose by 0.5 percentage points to an adjusted operating margin of 28.8%. 
We adjusted a high level of customer confidence by delivering on our promises to existing customers. We moved forward on target with our goal of service-enabling our software that will make it easier for our customers to execute on desired changes to their business. We now have over 7,300 customers of our service-enabled ERP application, SAP ERP. We announce that all new functional enhancements to SAP ERP 2005 in a series of optional enhancement packages, eliminating the need for customers to continually upgrade their systems to take advantage of the newest technology and business process innovations from  SAP. 
Providing software to meet the needs of companies that have not traditionally used SAP software is a core pillar of our strategy to double the size of the market we address. In 2006 we shipped a range of new products that address the needs of users who analyze data to gain new business insights. These include Duet software, a product we developed with Microsoft to enable users to access SAP data through familiar Microsoft products. We also introduced a new product deployment model with SAP CRM on-demand solutions. 
We continued to grow by industry. We lead the market in 20 of the 25 industries we serve and our growth in 2006 was driven by a mix of strong performance in traditional industries such as chemicals, oil and gas, and utilities, as well as in strategic industries such as retail and financial services. 
We executed on our policy of complementary acquisitions with the purchase of three software companies ? Khimetrics, Virsa, and Frictionless Commerce ? and the chief assets of two others ? Praxis Software Solutions and Factory Logic. 
We extended our global ecosystem of partners. In addition to new partnerships in Asia, with Tata Consultancy Services in India, Neusoft Group in China, and Fujitsu in Japan, we announced a new marketing cooperation agreement with Cisco Systems for the United States and Canada covering governance, risk, and compliance applications. We introduced industry value networks for five industries. These networks bring together independent software vendors and systems integrators with SAP and leading customer companies to develop solutions to industry-specific business pains. 
This exchange of business best practice with customers and partners is fundamental to our success. We believe we have a responsibility to society to make this best practice ? particularly in the areas of transparency and governance ? available to a broader range of stakeholders, including tomorrow’s business leaders. We do this through membership in a number of stakeholder forums such as the UN Global Compact and the International Business Leaders’ Forum, our collaboration in the Extractive Industries Transparency Initiative, and through the continued expansion of tour SAP University Alliances program. 
The testimony of the customers featured in this Annual Report is evidence of our continuing success. Across a range of different industries, geographies, and business needs, we support these customers in meeting their innovation and growth agendas. This would not be possible without our most important asset ? our people. We continue to invest in employees and hired over 3,400 staff worldwide, almost half of them in global research and development centers. 
GROWTH OPPORTUNITIES
We see enormous growth potential in 2007 and beyond. We will increase share of wallet among our existing large-and midsize customer base by bringing the entire SAP product suite to our business process platform. We will extend our platform with industry-specific versions. We will continue to develop our product offering for small businesses and midsize companies. In January 2007, we launched a new version of SAP Business One, our offering for small businesses. 
We are also addressing a huge revenue opportunity among midsize companies that are not currently enterprise software buyers. Over the last three years, we have focused on developing a product for these ‘non-buyers’. We are now innovating on our own business model to meet their need for low cost and risk and swift return on their IT investments. In January 2007, we announced a €300-400 million investment over eight quarters to build our “try-run-adapt” model that will enable companies to quickly access, configure, and run software to meet their needs. To minimize the investment risk for these companies, we are looking at alternative licensing models such as leasing as well as different financing options. We expect to achieve US$1 billion revenue from this offering by 2010 and 10,000 new customers per year onwards of 2010. 
THANK YOU 
In closing, I would like to thank each member of our ecosystem of employees, partners, and customers, who together enable SAP to create long-term value for you, our shareholders.

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- SAP 2007

LETTER TO THE SHAREHOLDERS
GROWTH THROUGH  INNOVATION

Dear shareholders, customers, partners, and colleagues,

SAP experienced an outstandingly dynamic year in 2007. We introduced an entirely new solution for small businesses and midsize companies and carried out the largest acqui- sition in our history. As these two milestones illustrate, we are moving forward and setting the course for the future.

At the same time, our innovations in our product and business models successfully enhanced our core busi- ness, enabling us to achieve excellent results for the year: SAP generated revenue in excess of €10 billion for the ?rst time. On a constant currency basis, our growth was the strongest for seven years, with an operating margin at the upper limit of our guidance. With 8,100 new customers, we increased our market share by another four percentage points.

So was it a successful year all round? Unfortunately not. As an SAP shareholder, you cannot be satis?ed with the development of our share price. Neither are we. Neverthe- less, you invested in SAP or decided to hold true to your investment. For that, I would like to thank you on behalf of the SAP Executive Board and our employees. We strongly believe that you have made a good decision. We also believe that we, too, have made good decisions that justify the trust you have shown in us.

Strong Growth from Inside
We continued to pursue our strategy of organic growth in
2007, increasing software and software-related service revenue by 17%  on a constant-currency basis. This result signi?cantly exceeds our forecast. It is an excellent  bill of health for our core business, which remains very prof- itable. The results were slightly hampered by the additional investments announced in early 2007 for SAP Business ByDesign. We are convinced, however, that these short- term investments will reward us with medium- to long-term bene?ts.

SAP Business ByDesign completes our o?ering for small business and midsize companies. We are already market leaders in that area, and have been since 2005, with our products SAP Business All-in-One and SAP Business One.

With SAP Business ByDesign, a newly developed product with a new business model, SAP has entered the on- demand market. Unlike the on-demand products from other vendors, however, SAP Business ByDesign supports all business processes that customers require. Our portfolio now encompasses solutions for enterprises of all sizes
and in all industries.  Our industry expertise in particular is one of SAP’s key strengths.

Co-innovation  within a network of partners is essential in the software industry. Working with our partners to gain new know-how and generate fresh ideas enables SAP to stay decisively ahead of the competition. We are therefore enhancing our own research and development organization with many other centers of innovation, ranging from select universities (including our University Alliance program), industry forums and online communities to the Co-Innova- tion Lab opened in Palo Alto, California, in mid-2007.

Secure Innovations for our Customers
Because of our uncompromising commitment to ful?lling our customers’ requirements and our innovation leader- ship, we can continually provide the right products to add value and create competitive advantages for our cus- tomers. This illustrates the changed role of enterprise soft- ware: Whereas e?ciency and cost reduction were once
the primary concern, today’s enterprise software increas- ingly focuses on providing new ways to add value and di?erentiate companies from the global competition. This shift is enabled by a business process platform based on our enterprise service-oriented architecture (enterprise SOA). With this platform, it is much easier for companies to implement process improvements and new business models.

In 2004, we drew out a road map to establish enterprise SOA ? a task we have now completed with the release of SAP ERP 6.0. The more than 5,100 customers using enterprise SOA in production at the end of 2007 are the strongest evidence for the success of this innovation strategy for SAP Business Suite, complemented by the 29,000 live installations of SAP NetWeaver. For our cus- tomers, this spells greater agility and productivity, but also ensures signi?cantly easier implementations of future innovations. Instead of having to carry out complex up- grade projects, customers can now choose new functions and implement them using SAP enhancement packages. This form of delivery adds new capabilities to customers’ software without the risks to system stability that were inherent with traditional upgrades.

In December, the latest release of our customer relationship management (CRM) application, SAP CRM 7.0, part of SAP Business Suite, was received with great excitement. Our developers successfully united new functions with signi?cantly improved usability. The user interface is based on Internet technology and also works on mobile devices. As this combination of usability, functionality, and ?exibility is still a rarity in the world of enterprise applications, the demand for SAP CRM 7.0 is understandably very high.

Further Growth Opportunities
In light of these immense innovations, you way wonder why SAP looked beyond its strategy of acquiring small, specialized software vendors and also carried out large acquisitions in 2007. The answer is simple: When there is a market segment with excellent potential for growth and which complements SAP’s portfolio, but where other vendors have already established  their presence,  it can make sense for SAP to increase its own growth in that area with one strategic move.

With the completed acquisition of Business Objects S.A., we leapt straight to the top of the business user market. This market covers personnel  from all levels of a company ? from employees to the executive board ? who rely on business data and real-time analyses for their day-to-day jobs. As the market leader in its ?eld, Business Objects o?ers an ideal addition to our own products. Because we can now o?er all software  for quickly and easily conduct- ing analyses, supporting decision-makers, and adapting business processes, we have created competitive advan- tages for both our customers and for SAP.

Nevertheless, the markets have reacted hesitantly to the acquisition, much as they did to the new business model for SAP Business ByDesign. Indeed, we still have to prove that we will be successful in each of these new areas. However, SAP has often proved  that it can turn ambitious plans into reality; establishing enterprise SOA is a recent example of such a success. I am therefore convinced that the share price will again come to re?ect our continued success. Our operating income is in excellent condition and our ambitious growth strategy o?ers superb potential with promise of impressive increases in both the revenue and the margin.

As always, we will need outstanding employees in order  to ful?ll this promise. We strive to be an attractive employer worldwide and to be a magnet for the best talent. In 2007, we were able to secure the services of nearly 4,700 em- ployees, all of whom will do their part to further enhance our company’s performance. We are pleased that SAP’s headquarters in Germany was once again acknowledged as Germany’s best employer and that our social commit- ment was applauded worldwide.

The story of SAP’s success owes not only to the inge- niousness of its founders and the performance of all its employees, but also to our business partners and cus- tomers. Their united e?orts are the foundation for creating lasting value for our shareholders.


For this, I want to thank you all. Sincerely,

Henning Kagermann
Chairman and CEO, SAP AG

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- SAP 2008

Letter to the Shareholders
INNOVATION STARTS WITH AN IDEA

Dear Shareholders, Customers, Partners, and Colleagues

A substantial part of the global economy now runs on SAP software. More than 82,000 companies and organizations of all sizes trust our innovative products and services ? in every sector of industry and every region of the world. We are quite proud of that. This strong global presence, together with a well-diversified customer base, often makes us more resilient in times of crises in individual industries and regions. However, we are not immune to the current economic crisis, which is global in scale. Half way through September, business fell off sharply and unforeseeably. Thereafter, for the remainder of the year, we were unable to match the extraordinary growth we reported in the first-half of the year. Nonetheless, over the full year of 2008, we achieved 20 % more revenue from software and software-related services compared to the year before on a non-GAAP, constant-currency basis. Our market share grew 4.4 percentage points, of which 0.9 percentage points were from organic growth, while the acquisition of Business Objects accounted for 3.5 percentage points.

The stringent cost-containment measures we initiated in October have proven to be the right action to take. Without compromising the delivery of services and promised new products to our customers, we saved around € 220 million of costs in the final quarter, leading to an ap- proximately one percentage point increase in our non-GAAP operating margin for 2008. Such agility in a company of our size was well received by investors, and SAP stock outper- formed the major benchmark indexes in 2008.

However, the economic crisis has worsened and uncertainty has spread. Therefore, we must further reduce our costs. One area we must address is payroll, therefore, we intend to reduce our workforce globally by 3,000 positions by year-end 2009, taking full advantage of attrition as a factor in reaching this goal. This is a modest reduction, considering we creat- ed 14,000 new jobs in the past five years alone, not counting our Business Objects people.
We recognize that it is our committed and innovative workforce that drives our success, and we remain steadfast in maintaining SAP’s status as a great place to work.

SAP is well positioned to successfully handle a sustained economic crisis. We have doubled our addressable market since 2005, we are on track to pass 100,000 customers in 2010, and by then new products should be generating more than half of our license revenue. We also continued to improve our market lead in the small business and midsize company segment.

The investments of recent years are proving their worth. We have successfully transferred our portfolio to a service-oriented architecture (SOA) and continued to expand our offerings ? including those from the recently acquired Business Objects. With SOA, our customers can flexibly adapt their business processes and business models, including those that involve other organizations; and with SAP BusinessObjects solutions, customers have the best real- time tools to analyze all of their relevant business information - more insight for better in- formed decisions, more flexibility to implement those decisions quickly, and, of course, the most efficient processes achievable. We offer our customers the strategic agility they need to weather the current storm and to start growing again.

Our own long term growth prospects critically depend on our ability to innovate. Here are three topical examples: One, SAP Business Suite 7, launched in February 2009, represents
a new milestone in the development of business software; two, SAP Business ByDesign will open up a whole new midmarket segment for us, but first we are concentrating on making the new business model for it more profitable; and three, SAP Enterprise Support, an essen­ tial new support offering to help customers navigate the complexities of today’s IT landscapes. These support services are unrivaled in the marketplace, and very competitively priced.

In the coming years, we will be offering more solutions to support sustainability. Growing con­ cerns about social and ecological issues and the global tide of regulation create great op­ portunities for SAP. We intend to lead the market in the field of sustainability, and one way to demonstrate our commitment is to set a good example by establishing our own company­ wide sustainability practices at SAP.

Sustainable success in business has always been a key focus for SAP, and one way we have been able to achieve this is our custom of maintaining a seamless management transi­ tion. With the two of us working together for many years now, that tradition continues. On behalf of the Executive Board, we both thank you for continuing to invest your trust in SAP.

I leave you with my warmest regards                    I welcome you with equally warm regards

Sincerely,                                                              Sincerely,

Henning Kagermann                                             L?o Apotheker
Co­CEO                                                                Co­CEO SAP AG                                                                SAP AG

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- SAP 2009

Letter to the Shareholders
Clarity fosters innovation

Dear Shareholders, Customers, Partners, and Colleagues,

The past year was marked by changes to the business environment, as customers adapted to a new market reality. Customer buying behavior shifted to an emphasis on smaller transactions and projects with immediate return; decision making moved increasingly to line of business executives and away from the traditional  IT power base of the CIO; and there were increased requirements for solutions to help CEOs, COOs, and CFOs manage perfor- mance, compliance, and gain more business insight for faster decision making.

To respond quickly to this “new normal” of customer behavior, SAP began an ambitious transformation to bring us closer to customers and to increase speed to value. We laid a new foundation for sustainable growth, implemented lean principles and increased engagement with employees ? our most powerful assets ? while paying close attention to costs, reducing them by €662 million year-over-year, with a clear focus on improving our operating margin.

As 2009 drew to a close, these transformation efforts, combined with strong field execution and a renewed focus on innovation, allowed SAP to finish the year with better-than-expected fourth-quarter and full-year results as software and software-related service (SSRS) revenue was down only 5% for 2009 (non-GAAP, constant currencies). Execution was strong in the Asia Pacific and Americas regions, with the BRIC countries, the United States, the United Kingdom, and Germany leading the pack. We won some outstanding customers in key indus- tries, such as banking, insurance, public sector, and telecommunications. We also exceeded our operating margin target for the year at 27.5% (non-GAAP, constant currencies).

Today, companies in all industries and of all sizes are looking to SAP to help them grow again. They want to be more innovative, agile, and competitive, and they are focused on tech- nology investments that can help them take full advantage of a more positive economic outlook. As such, we expect 2010 to be a powerful year for SAP as we look to significantly expand our leadership of the enterprise application software market with new innovative products, new customer opportunities, and a focus on sustainable top-line and margin growth.

The changes in the SAP Executive Board made early this year were designed to intensify and accelerate our business strategy. SAP is more focused than ever on delivering a faster pace of innovation enabling customers to consume our solutions on-premise, on-demand, and on-device. We will help customers drive down their cost of operations by orchestrating their information technology, while providing consistency and security of data and business processes. Moreover, we will leverage the latest technologies, such as virtualization, cloud, and in-memory to ensure that our business solutions are easy to implement, easy to use, and seamlessly integrate across SAP and non-SAP environments.

At the forefront is the SAP Business ByDesign solution, which we anticipate delivering mid-2010 as a volume-ready cloud suite. In addition, this year SAP will begin delivering on-demand extensions to our market-leading SAP Business Suite 7, giving customers a choice of on- premise, on-demand, or a hybrid of both. We will also bring to market innovations such as networked applications, in-depth industry solutions, and applications designed to help busi- ness users be more informed, productive, and efficient. At the same time, SAP will more fully leverage the industry’s largest ecosystem to drive growth for SAP and innovation for our customers. We will provide our partners the support they need to help ensure their success when working and partnering with SAP. 

Together, as co-CEOs, we believe our strong working relationship and complementary skills can help accelerate SAP’s transformation. Our joint ambition is to foster a culture of innova- tion at SAP that engages and inspires our people around one goal: helping our customers be best-run businesses. We stand at the beginning of a new era where information technology means more than just individual applications or products ? it enables all facets of society to flourish. We look forward to strengthening our strong partnerships with all stakeholders as we lead SAP into a new generation of profitable growth.

The successful conclusion to 2009 is testimony to the market leadership of SAP, built upon the trusted advisor status we have earned with more than 95,000 customers, and to the  innovative power and drive of SAP employees and partners. While the last year has been defined by a changed market environment and internal transformation, SAP is uniquely  prepared and positioned to take full advantage of the opportunities that are in front of us. 

Best regards,

Bill McDermott                                                      Jim Hagemann Snabe
Co-CEO                                                                Co-CEO SAP AG                                                                SAP AG

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- SAP 2010

Letter from the Co-CEos
Run Better

Dear Shareholders, Customers, partners, and Colleagues,

We started 2010 with the goal of making SAp a growth company again. We decided to concentrate on delivering superior value to our customers and we refocused our strategy on innovation. We started with an ambitious vision: to make the world run better. We then centered everything on our mission to make our customers best-run businesses. this strategy allows us to both strengthen leadership in our traditional  business and to double our addressable market by investing in new innovations that will change the game for our customers.

As we look back  at 2010, our efforts to refine  and  accelerate our strategy, combined with excellent execution, produced solid results ? capped off by our best fourth quarter ever. We saw broad-based, double-digit increases in software and software-related service (SSRS) revenue in all regions. High growth markets, the BRIC countries in particular, saw 70?% year-over-year gains in software revenue. Full-year non-IFRS  SSRS revenue increased appro- ximately 20?% (13?% at constant currencies) and exceeded our company guidance. We added 15,000 new custom- ers during the year, including 5,800 small and midsize companies. Just as important, we met our guidance for full year 2010 non-IFRS operating margin at constant currencies.

our innovation strategy includes a focus on new game-changing technologies such as in-memory  computing, mobile computing, and cloud computing. We delivered important innovations in all three categories. We success- fully launched SAP Business ByDesign, enabling companies to run best practices through the cloud ? without any installation of It. We also launched our High-performance Analytic Appliance (SAP HANA) that allows customers to analyze, in real time, what is going on in their business, without any change to their landscape. The development of SAP HANA is a leading example of our rapid innovation cycle.

And as we look to this coming year, our innovation pipeline is full. Working closely with partners worldwide, we offer more powerful innovation to our customers. We strongly believe that in this world of innovation, one company cannot offer all of the  options that businesses require. We promote co-innovation with partners to offer customers optimal choice, and embrace our role orchestrating our customers’ data and  processes consistently and securely across their diverse It landscapes.

With our acquisition of Sybase, SAp became the leader in enterprise mobility, setting the stage for the unwired enterprise and the evolution of mobile devices as the “new desktop.” We are also aggressively pursuing other transformative technologies, such as virtualization, cloud, and in-memory computing, to deliver solutions that are easier to implement and use, integrated across SAP and non-SAP environments, enabling our customers to operate in real-time, with information at their  fingertips.

Through lean development practices, we connected our development teams more closely to our customers and  accelerated the delivery of solutions to the market. Our field sales teams grew savvier in positioning IT solu- tions with shorter implementation times and lower total cost of ownership to deliver the value our customers require. through our value management disciplines, we ensured that, for every dollar customers spend with SAP, they can expect ten in return. no other company can create this holistic cycle from strategy to business out- come for our customers like SAP and our open partner ecosystem.

In addition to the  focus externally on our customers, we made significant strides with our people strategy. The appointment of Angelika Dammann as a member of the SAP executive Board in charge of human resources promises a new focus on our greatest asset ? our employees. Across the organization, we are making SAP run better through a stronger focus on leadership and people development. We are fostering a culture at SAP that engages and  inspires our people around one goal: helping our customers be best-run businesses.

The year was not without its setbacks. As the accountable company that we are, we took responsibility for any mistakes made by the defunct tomorrownow subsidiary. However, we believe that amount awarded by the jury in the trial is disproportionate and are pursuing options to reduce that amount. nonetheless, we learned a valu- able lesson about transparency and good governance. Fortunately, our customers realize that the actions at tomorrownow were isolated and discontinued years ago.

The strong momentum from our 2010 performance gives us full confidence that we will achieve our ambitious goals for the coming years and that SAP will expand its market leadership in business software. We continuously challenge ourselves to run better with the goal of making SAP more valuable for our customers, employees, and shareholders.

We have  made great strides since we took the helm  of SAP in February 2010, bringing back  confidence in the company, our strategy, and our management team. We are running better to make SAP the innovator and undisputed market leader.

We look forward to strengthening our strong partnerships with all stakeholders as we lead SAP into a new generation of profitable growth.

Best regards,

Jim hagemann Snabe                                                 Bill McDermott
Co-Ceo SAp AG                                                           Co-Ceo SAp AG

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- SAP 2011

Letter from the Co-CEOs
Dear Shareholders, Customers, Partners, and Colleagues,

As SAP celebrates its 40th anniversary, the  world looks very different than it did in 1972. More than ever, it is a world of connections. Economies are increasingly dependent upon one another. Companies are truly global,
and  operate within broader ecosystems that include partners, customers, and  even  competitors. Populations con- tinue to converge in urban areas ? where people are living better, longer lives, yet putting immense strain on resources and  our climate. Sustainable consumption is no longer optional, it is a necessity.

Much of today’s connectedness has been brought about by the emergence of digital technologies, which continue to evolve at incredible rates. The amount of data on the planet is doubling every  18 months. By 2013, more than 15 billion mobile devices will be connected to the Internet. Already, 80% of new software offerings are available from the cloud, making them easy and efficient to use. And over 1 billion people are linked virtually via social networks. These developments represent an immense opportunity. Technology, in particular innovative software such as ours from SAP, can make sense of the digitized world, helping it run better and more sustainably, while improving people’s lives. That is our vision at SAP, and it forms the foundation of our customer-driven innovation strategy.

We executed with excellence against this strategy in 2011. More organizations than ever before turned to SAP to help them innovate for growth, optimize the use  of resources, and  inspire people to be their  best. This led to dou- ble-digit growth for us in every  quarter. We exceeded market expectations with full-year non-IFRS  software and software-related service revenue growth of 15% (17% at constant currencies). Full-year non-IFRS  operating profit reached €4.71 billion (€4.78 billion at constant currencies), resulting in a full-year non-IFRS  operating margin increase of 1.1 percentage points at constant currencies to 33.1%. These results are proof  that our strategy of growth through innovation is winning in the marketplace. Our innovations are not only creating growth in new product areas, but also driving strong demand for our core applications and  analytics software.

Delivering Value in Five Mark Categories 
We deliver  value to our customers through industry-specific and  line-of-business solutions across five market categories: Applications, analytics, mobile, cloud, and  database and  technology. In 2011, we made significant prog- ress in each of these categories:

Applications: In applications, we introduced the SAP Business Suite Innovation Road Map. It provides customers with more innovation, less disruption, and greater long-term predictability through the extension of maintenance until 2020. We also ramped up the delivery of SAP Rapid Deployment solutions, which are software packages that are preconfigured with our industry expertise, allowing customers to reduce deployment time  to as little as six weeks. With the acquisition of Right Hemisphere, we took an important step to further improve the user interface of our core products.

Analytics: Our analytics solutions give customers the power to turn insight into action by providing visibility into the data they  need to run their  business more effectively. In 2011, we introduced our latest portfolio of powerful analytics solutions. They enable our customers to better understand all facets of their  businesses and  make confi- dent, fact-based decisions as events unfold  in real time.

Mobile: The trend to mobile continued in 2011. With our mobile solutions, customers benefit from new consumption models, device management, and  the most robust security. We also brought the power of the enterprise into employees’ hands by releasing more than 50 mobile apps that allow our customers’ employees to work at any time  and  from anywhere via mobile devices. In this area, we surpassed our €100 million revenue target while extending the reach of SAP software.

Cloud: We expanded our cloud  portfolio in 2011, allowing us to provide customers with the benefits of simple and efficient software consumption. We achieved a key goal of enlisting more than 1,000 companies to choose our cloud-based SAP Business ByDesign solution. To complement our cloud  offering, we announced the acquisition of SuccessFactors, the leading provider of cloud-based human capital management solutions and the largest cloud company by number of users. This acquisition will significantly accelerate our momentum to become a €2 billion cloud  business by 2015. We also acquired Crossgate, which supports the creation of virtual business networks.

Database and Technology: Our database and  technology solutions began to redefine the market in 2011. Our technology solutions provide a cohesive platform on which our customers can accelerate and streamline their investments. This allows customers to extend their  applications to reach more people and  adopt new processes, devices, and  consumption models. The Sybase database portfolio, combined with the power and  potential of our SAP HANA in-memory technology platform, gives us the opportunity to address the market for structured and unstructured data and  become the fastest growing database company.

Our SAP HANA platform merits special notice. This groundbreaking technology enables non-disruptive innovation across all five of the above market categories. It often increases computing speeds by a factor of 1,000 or more, allowing our customers to work with massive amounts of data in real time. SAP HANA will transform the market and allow us to renew our entire portfolio. It represents the future of SAP and  we will continue to co-innovate with partners and  customers to realize its full potential. SAP HANA generated revenue of more than €160 million for the year  ? making it the fastest growing product in our history.

Investing in Growth Markets 
SAP expects above-average development in growth markets in the coming years. We continue to increase our investments in these markets. In China, for example, we will spend US$2 billion through 2015 on four key areas: Creating solutions, delivering these solutions by expanding our geographical footprint, building our support net- work, and  nurturing the local IT ecosystem. We also invested in a new development lab near Moscow, Russia, pro- viding us with a unique opportunity to be at the center of a local network of partners, customers, and start-ups in this important market. Further growth market investments are planned for 2012.

Investing in Our People
Our innovative solutions and  services would not be possible without our greatest asset ? our employees. SAP con- tinues to strengthen its focus on leadership and  employee development. This commitment has  led to a 9% increase in the Employee Engagement Index, which measures employee satisfaction and  motivation. We also made strides toward our goal of having  women in 25%  of our leadership positions. At the end  of 2011, 18.6%  of leadership positions were  held by women. SAP considers employee engagement and  diversity an important aspect of being  a sustainable company. In the area of sustainability, we are also proud to report that we increased carbon and  energy efficiency for the fifth consecutive year.

Building momentum
We have  unprecedented momentum moving into 2012. Our customers value our focus on their  needs and  the non-disruptive breakthrough innovation we deliver. Organizations are shifting their  IT spending to software from SAP because it helps them run better. We are well-positioned to exceed our goal of €20 billion in total revenue, achieve a 35%  non-IFRS  operating margin, and  reach 1 billion people with beautiful software in 2015.

We look forward to continuing working with our customers, industry partners, employees, and shareholders as we help the world run better and  improve people’s lives.

Best regards,

Bill McDermott                                                      Jim Hagemann Snabe
Co-CEO, SAP AG                                                                 Co-CEO, SAP AG

---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------SAP 2012

Dear Stakeholders,

The real-time world has now become reality. Cloud computing is changing the way software is consumed, evidenced by a shift in spending from hardware to software. Currently, there are more mobile devices in the world than people, giving billions of people computing power in their pockets. Fifteen billion of those devices are connected to the Internet, bringing people and businesses closer to each other across the globe.

Technology has moved beyond supporting business. More than ever, technology is the business.

At the same time, today’s technological advances create challenges of their own. Data volumes are doubling every 18 months, generating overwhelming information management challenges. And, as technology contributes to the growth of a global middle class ? expected to be nearly five billion strong by 2030 ? the world’s resources will be stressed to their limits.

Customers look to SAP to help them face this world of accelerating change in real time. Based on our unparalleled knowledge of critical business processes, they expect us to help them overcome global competition; use economic, natural, and social resources more wisely; interact with customers in new and personalized ways; and process the exabytes of information that flow into their data centers each year. Our purpose as a company is clearly defined as helping the world run better and improving people’s lives.

A Strategy of Innovation

In 2010, we introduced a highly focused innovation strategy that doubled our addressable market by offering solutions across five market categories ? Applications, Analytics, Cloud, Mobile, and Database and Technology. With a neverending focus on our customers, that strategy continues to deliver gratifying results to date.

In 2012, we experienced another four quarters of double-digit software and software-related (SSRS) growth (non-IFRS) ? we have now had 12 consecutive quarters of double-digit SSRS growth. For the full year, non-IFRS SSRS revenue grew 17% (13% at constant currencies). Software and cloud subscriptions revenue growth was even stronger with 21% growth (17% at constant currencies), which is twice as fast as our closest competitor. Our cloud momentum continued to accelerate, and the annual cloud revenue run rate approached €850 million.
We achieved a full-year non-IFRS operating profit of €5.2 billion, growing 11% (7% at constant currencies). We achieved this profitable growth while making continued investments in global go-to-market activities and our cloud business.

These results demonstrate that customers see the value of our innovations, and recognize that we deliver solutions that help them succeed in a hyperconnected and unpredictable world. 

And today, we have become the leader in applications, analytics, and mobile. We are also the fastest-growing database company, and continue to build unrivaled momentum in cloud.

SAP HANA® and the Cloud

In 2012, two innovations in particular ? SAP HANA® and our cloud-based solutions ? delivered outstanding results. 

With SAP HANA, we have once again reinvented real time. The SAP HANA platform allows customers to take advantage of in-memory computing technology across all five market categories. Since 2010, we have introduced premier applications that run on SAP HANA, such as the SAP® 360 Customer solution and the SAP NetWeaver® Business Warehouse application. And, we raised the bar once again in January 2013, by introducing SAP Business Suite powered by SAP HANA ? something we believe is as dramatic an innovation as SAP R/3® was in the 1990s. Customers recognize a breakthrough when they see one, and SAP HANA has already generated €392 million in software revenue in 2012.

With our acquisition of SuccessFactors and other cloud innovations, we now have the most comprehensive and consistent cloud portfolio in the market. And through the cloud-based Ariba Network ? the largest of its kind in the world ? we are adding the power of globally connected business.

Innovations such as SAP HANA and our cloud solutions are changing the way that customers consume software and conduct business. Simply put, we are delivering innovations that address today’s and tomorrow’s challenges without causing disruption to our customers’ business operations. 

Leveraging Our Strengths

We continue to leverage our traditional strengths, which include broad experience across 24 industries, and a large and expanding ecosystem of suppliers and business partners. Our partner network continuously presents additional opportunities to develop innovative products and solutions while significantly increasing our potential sales channels. In fact, indirect sales now make up 34% of SAP’s total software revenue.

Toward a Sustainable Future

Our commitment to a sustainable world is strong, as we seek to minimize our own environmental footprint and positively impact the communities in which we work. In 2012, for example, 60% of the electricity consumed by SAP came from renewable sources. We reduced our greenhouse gas emissions slightly despite strong business growth. And, our employees delivered more than 130,000 hours of volunteering in the communities in which we work. Our commitment to achieving sustainable success is further demonstrated in this report, where we integrate our sustainability and financial reporting.

At the same time, our commitment to more than 232,000 customers and over 64,000 employees has never been stronger, as we aim to increase our customer loyalty, measured by the Net Promoter Score, by eight percentage points, while increasing employee engagement to 82%. We continue to focus on leadership and employee development, and have also made strides toward our goal of having women in 25% of leadership positions. At the end of 2012, 19.4% of our leadership positions were held by women (2011: 18.7%).

We are well on our way to achieving our 2015 goals of more than €20 billion in revenue, with a 35% non-IFRS operating margin, and one billion people interacting with our software. Further, we aim to build a €2 billion cloud business and to remain the fastest-growing database company. And, we will achieve all of this while helping our customers minimize their environmental impact.

Helping the World Run Better

Companies that will lead in the 21st century define success more broadly than financial performance. They look at their impact on the world ? socially, environmentally, and economically. Our solutions give us a huge opportunity to respond to challenges and opportunities, whether that means addressing the lack of opportunity for people throughout the world or contending with stress on our ecosystems. We believe that our business success hinges on our ability to seize this opportunity and fulfill our vision to make the world run better ? in real time.

---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------SAP 2013

Dear Stakeholders,

In 2010, we launched our customer-centric innovation strategy based on a strong conviction
that yesterday’s technologies could not solve tomorrow’s challenges. 

We listened to our customers that wanted to adopt innovation faster, analyze unprecedented amounts of data, reach their customers and consumers across all channels, and manage their mobile workers. In response, we expanded our portfolio by investing in cloud-based solutions and mobile technology ? and by introducing SAP HANA, our game-changing in-memory technology.

Now, in 2014, it is clear that our strategy was the right one. Today, cloud, mobile, and Big Data are the dominant themes in the IT industry. With four consecutive years of double-digit growth, our success is evident. We are the fastest-growing mega-cap company in the enterprise software industry. For 2013, we reported €16.9 billion non-IFRS total revenue, with 11% constant currency growth in software and cloud subscription revenue (5% at actual currencies). In the same period, our non-IFRS operating margin increased to 33.5% at constant currencies (32.6% at actual currencies). We have more than 253,500 customers from companies of all sizes, across 25 industries, in mature as well as emerging markets.

With the market position and innovation pipeline we have today, we now have a unique opportunity to deliver significantly more value to our customers and reshape the technology landscape for lower cost and higher performance.

The trends we identified in 2010 have only accelerated, and we remain focused and determined to win in rapidly growing areas, especially in cloud and in-memory technology. Our SAP HANA technology has evolved from a real-time database to a true in-memory platform. SAP HANA now allows companies to radically simplify their IT infrastructure. In 2013, we put our entire SAP Business Suite on SAP HANA. Going forward, our software portfolio and the innovations of our partner ecosystem will be built on the foundation of SAP HANA. In the three years since its launch, SAP HANA has generated nearly €1.2 billion in revenue and has become one of the fastest growing products in the history of enterprise software. In 2013 alone, SAP HANA generated €664 million in revenue, which is an increase of 69% over the previous year at constant currencies.

Cloud computing has now become mainstream and is a widely accepted delivery model in the United States, and increasingly in Asia and Europe. The cloud offers an unprecedented opportunity to simplify software delivery and speed to value as customers get immediate access to innovation. Our annual cloud revenue run rate reached €1.06 billion at the end of 2013. For the year, we reported €757 million non-IFRS cloud subscription and support revenue. Today, SAP Cloud powered by SAP HANA is the broadest cloud portfolio in the industry. More than 35 million users work with our solutions in the cloud, and approximately 1.4 million companies trade over half a trillion U.S. dollars of goods and services through our cloud-based Ariba Network.

Our strategy was always embedded in a higher purpose and vision to “help the world run better and improve people’s lives.” In a world of limited resources, we are proud that, with our solutions, 10 million people in South Africa now have access to banking services with their mobile phones, urban governments in more than 50 countries deliver better services to their citizens, and people in more than 21 countries have easier access to education. In addition, we continue to uphold our commitment to the United Nations Global Compact.

Our non-financial performance indicators remained strong in 2013: We increased our Net Promoter Score by 3.2 percentage points. We also reduced our carbon footprint by 9% since the beginning of 2008. And, for the seventh time in a row, we have been ranked the number one software company in the Dow Jones Sustainability Index. As more customers choose our cloud solutions and our data centers grow, our total energy use will also increase. In 2014, we are addressing this growth by powering all of our data centers with 100% renewable energy. Moreover, we achieved an employee engagement score of 77%, which is among the highest benchmarks for this indicator. We are especially proud of our more than 66,500 employees, and thank them wholeheartedly for their hard work and innovative spirit.

Our momentum and strong foundation allows us to be bold about our future and set ambitious goals. By 2017, we expect to deliver at least €22 billion in total revenue (thereof €3.0?€3.5 billion from our cloud business). To capture the growth in the cloud, we have extended the time horizon for our 35% operating margin target to 2017. Further, we aim to increase customer loyalty by another four percentage points in 2014. In addition, we remain committed to increasing our already high level of employee engagement to 82% by 2015.

In a world of increasing velocity, innovation is imperative. But innovation must never lose sight of the human spirit, which craves simplicity and clarity. That is why our focus now is to “simplify everything so we can do anything.” With this guiding principle, we believe SAP is positioned to deliver profitable growth ? and to continue our vision of helping the world run better while improving people’s lives.

---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------SAP 2014

Dear Stakeholders, 

In 2014, SAP’s more than 74,400 employees came together and delivered a performance worthy of our enduring vision to help the world run better and improve people’s lives. 

We also seized on the most intractable CEO challenge of this generation: complexity. In acknowledging the common enemy facing businesses of all sizes in all industries, we established and audacious new operating principle for ourselves and for the world: Run Simple. 

Business Highlights 

Against the backdrop of an IT industry in the midst of massive transformation, SAP executed in 2014 with the strength and stability the world has come to expect from a market leader. We delivered €17.6 billion in non-IFRS total revenues and €5.6 billion in non-IFRS operating profit for the full year. This performance is the latest result of our carefully and effectively managed business transformation, driven by the accelerated growth in SAP’s cloud business. 

As customer preference shifts toward the software-as-a-service model, SAP’s business results evolve as well. The transition results in less upfront revenue because, unlike perpetual software licenses, cloud subscriptions are recognized over time instead of at the moment of the initial delivery. The cloud business model does have considerable benefits, including increased revenue predictability over the long term. 

In 2014, this cloud transition accelerated for SAP. Non-IFRS cloud subscriptions and support revenue was €1.10 billion (compared with €757 million in 2013), an increase of 45%. SAP’s annual total cloud revenue run rate exceeded €1.7 billion. This is even more exciting when considering that only five years ago, SAP’s cloud revenues and registered cloud users were negligible. 

Today, SAP is the fastest-growing enterprise cloud company at scale and the largest cloud company in the world by measure of users (70 million). By creating a “green cloud,” we have also tied our environmental strategy to our business strategy. Despite the increase in energy consumption from broader use of our cloud solutions, we were able to reduce our carbon footprint by 8% compared to 2013. And, for the eighth year in a row, we have been ranked the number-one software company in the Dow Jones Sustainability Index. 

Other non-financial performance metrics also tell the story of SAP’s successful 2014. Our employee engagement index increased to 79%, again showing that our employees are engaged, supportive of our consistent strategy, and united in high trust. Our customers are not only satisfied, but also see us as a trusted partner for innovation, leading to an increase in customer royalty, as measured by the Customer Net Promoter Score, to 19.1%. 

Overall, our 2014 performance was driven by our people and by an innovations portfolio built around the business challenges and opportunities facing our more than 282,000 customers worldwide. 

The Great Simplifier: SAP HANA

With fast-growing inputs from sources like social media and the Internet of Things, CEOs have made it clear: accessing and analyzing only 1% of their data is a clear manifestation of complexity. Only SAP could take on the challenge of Run Simple, because only we have SAP HANA to manage the Big Data of the enterprise ? structured and unstructured. With skyrocketing customer adoption in 2014, we firmly established the leadership position of SAP HANA, with more than 5,800 SAP HANA customers and 1,850 SAP Business Suite powered by SAP HANA customers worldwide. 

In 2014, we also unveiled a new breakthrough, SAP Simple Finance, a solution fundamentally redefining what it means to use real-time financial data in successful businesses. Changing the “Read, then react” mindset in favor of prediction and simulation, SAP Simple Finance includes functionality and features natively built for the SAP HANA platform, delivering a consumer-grade user experience along with its revolutionary capabilities for finance professionals. 

But SAP HANA also proved to be much more than just a transformational business innovation platform in 2014. It is changing everything from sports ? SAP Match Insights powered by SAP HANA helped German National Football Team with the 2014 FIFA World Cup ? to healthcare ? Heidelberg’s National Center for Tumor Diseases now uses SAP HANA to improve diagnostic and patient treatment capabilities. Whether it’s the Ebola outbreak in West Africa or infant mortality in the United States, SAP HANA is uniting future leaders from the Hasso Plattner Institute and other leading universities with business and political leaders to change the world. 

Applications in the cloud built for business 

For the CIO to line-of-business executives in HR, procurement, and sales, we knew the cloud would be the pervasive computing theme of this generation. So back in 2010, SAP set out on a series of bold moves to build the broadest cloud portfolio in the technology industry. In 2014, that portfolio grew even stronger. SuccessFactors Employee Central became the fastest-growing core HR management solution in the marketplace. Combined with solutions from Fieldglass, SAP is the only cloud company that helps customers manage their total workforce ? including temporary workers, which remains the fastest-growing segment of the labor force. 

In addition to engaging the workforce, the CEO agenda in the cloud is also about engaging end-consumers in any channel, on any device. We knew that sales force automation had its place, but that legacy CRM wouldn’t help CEOS build growth strategies for the digital economy. That’s why our SAP solutions for customer engagement and commerce showed aggressive growth in 2014, including SAP hybris Marketing and SAP Cloud for Customer. 

The cloud may be accelerating, but for customers the cloud is not a one-size-fits-all option. In 2014, SAP continued to invest in our public and managed cloud offerings, ensuring that customers could choose whether to run applications or entire enterprises in an SAP cloud ? public, managed, or hybrid. However, the customer chooses to consume our technology, we remain ever-focused on innovating for their specific industry with our four decades-long commitment to security and trust. 

The Business Network 

2014 also saw SAP take a defining step on the road to the next frontier in the cloud: a secure, real-time business network to reinvent commerce between companies. It started in 2012 with Ariba, the network for indirect materials in the enterprise. It expanded in mid-2014 with Fieldglass and contract workforces. At the end of 2014, we successfully completed the acquisition of Concur, the largest software-as-a-service acquisition in history, addition the US $1.2 trillion business travel market to the scope of SAP’s leadership position in the business network. 

Concur completes our network vision and enables SAP to help customers reinvent resource management across all major categories of enterprise spend. To defeat complexity, it’s no longer adequate for business processes to end at the walls of an enterprise. Our business network extends those processes between companies, a significant step forward for Run Simple. 

The Road Ahead

SAP enjoyed a strong and successful 2014, but we remain restless in our drive to shape the future of enterprise technology. In 2015, for example, we already made the largest product announcement in SAP’s history: SAP S/4HANA, a next-generation business suite built for the digital, networked economy. SAP S/4HANA is designed to drive instant value across lines of business and industries with the ultimate sophistication: simplicity. From a business value perspective, SAP S/4HANA can create unique opportunities to reinvent business models and drive new revenues. From an IT perspective, SAP S/4HANA can create unique opportunities to dramatically simplify the IT landscape and reduce total cost of ownership. 

With SAP/4HANA to revolutionize core business applications, the broadest cloud portfolio across industries and lines of business, and the business network to reinvent commerce between companies, we enter 2015 with the strongest collection of assets in the company’s history. 

This Report 

We invite all stakeholders to explore our SAP Integrated Report 2014 to learn more about SAP’s business strategy and performance. But we also believe in full transparency, which is why you’ll also find extensive information about our social and environmental performance. It’s no longer enough for great companies to be financially and operationally sound. The 21st century demands purpose-driven companies, keenly aware of the impact we have on our people and environment. In this spirit, the SAP Integrated Report aims to be a role model. We welcome your interest and your feedback. 

SAP, our employees, and our ecosystem are united in dedication to our customers. We see a future where every customer can run real time, run networked, and Run Simple. 2014 kept us on the right path and inspires us to be continue leading in 2015 and beyond. 


 ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Dell 2004 

FROM THE OFFICE OF THE CEO

One of Dell’s core strengths is our ability to evolve as we meet changing customer requirements, technological innovations, and global market conditions. This report is an excellent example of that drive to continually improve and deliver increased value to all our stakeholders.

As our last report indicated, we recognize that while environmental stewardship is a key corporate imperative, our accountability extends to other areas in which the readers of this report will have an interest. We have chosen to evolve our reporting from our annual environmental report to an annual sustainability report, indicating our awareness that we have a key role to play in ensuring the impact and long term viability of our corporation. We have also changed the reporting cycle, aligning the release of this report with the release of our Year in Review, which is avail- able online at http://www.dell.com. We understand that our financial performance and our environmental and soci- etal impact are highly interrelated parts of “triple-bottom-line”  reporting. While we do not claim to have achieved our goal for this type of reporting, we believe we are demonstrating real progress towards integration and alignment of these key indicators in our reporting methodology.

Our mission is to fully integrate sustainable development and management practices into our business of providing quality products, best-in-class services, and the best customer experience at the best value. The tone of this report is intentionally direct, factual, and tied to our business results wherever possible.
We would like to highlight several key areas of progress:

? This fiscal year 2004 report is Dell’s second attempt to align our reporting practices with the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Sustainability Guidelines, available in their entirety on the Internet at http://www.globalreporting.org. Our progress in developing more comprehensive and transparent reporting in fiscal year 2004 (when compared to fiscal year 2003) is evidenced in that we have approximately doubled  our GRI cross-references as reflected in the GRI Index on page 3.
? Our increased investment in the area of corporate accountability is demonstrated by the addition of internal resources to drive these programs, expansions of our stakeholder relationships, and increased engagement at every level of the company, including our own personal involvement.
? We have increased the number of socially responsible investor groups with which we are working and broadened the scope of our dialogue. We continue to find significant value in the guidance from these groups who strive to integrate environmental and societal impact, as well as financial performance, into their investment decisions.
? Our focus on suppliers’ contributions to Dell’s sustainability  efforts expanded to include both design for environment attributes  and the human rights impact of our supply base practices. Additional information will be found both in this report and on our web site at http://www.dell.com/supplierprinciples.
? One of the most significant areas of focus in fiscal year 2004 was the rapid evolution of our efforts to address the complex issue of responsible end-of-life retirement of electronics hardware. A series of one-day take-back collection events conducted in the United States in the spring of 2003 was evolved into two-day sessions, the first of which is dedicated to an educational seminar featuring experts addressing many complex product recovery issues such as materials export. Our collection program has also been expanded to include a grant program that you will learn about further in this report. This model, while not a long term national solution, is sustainable and synergistic, allowing communities to attract many other like minds to invest in addressing their local waste issues. Electronics reuse and recycling, in all customer segments, remains a key focus for Dell in fiscal year 2005.
While we have learned much this year, as often is the case, the knowledge has brought with it a realization that there is much more to comprehend. At the conclusion of this year’s report is a summary of the more significant challenges we have identified as well as a broader set of goals for the year. We believe that we have the right team, business model, values, partners, and stakeholders to support Dell on this important journey.

Michael S. Dell
Chairman of the Board Chief Executive Officer

Kevin B. Rollins
President
Chief Operating Officer

 ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Dell 2005

From the Chairman and the CEO

At Dell, we have a core set of values that define the kind of company we are and aspire to become. We are committed to translating these values into sustainable practices and continually improving those practices.

This belief captures our approach to leveraging the vast skills of the Dell team to manage the environmental and societal impacts and opportunities of our products, processes and practices. We are pleased to introduce our Fiscal Year 2005
Sustainability Report, which in many ways is a summary of our accomplishments this year in putting our values into action. This report continues our practice of utilizing the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) sustainability guidelines, available at www.globalreporting.org, and expands on our Year in
Review, available at www.dell.com.

We would like to highlight several key areas of progress, starting with  our focus on environmental responsibility.  Examples in this area include:

? Product Recovery and Recycling: Dell was the first company in our industry to set a public product recovery goal. We set and exceeded a goal of increasing the weight of returned and recycled electronic products by 50 percent over FY2004. See page 58 for details.
? Forest Stewardship: Working with several stakeholders, including the ForestEthics (www.forestethics.org) and Environmental Defense (www.environmentaldefense.org) environmental nonprofits, Dell developed a model that governs our sourcing of paper products and sets a goal of 
using 10 percent post-consumer waste recycled content paper in our catalogs by the end of 2005. See page 49 for details.
The incorporation of labor rights into our supply chain management practices was also an area of increased focus. Areas of success include:

? Publication of Dell’s Supplier Principles at www.dell.com/supplierprinciples. See page 23 for details.
? Collaboration with  other companies to develop an Electronics Industry Code of Conduct for our common supply base, streamlining the efforts of suppliers to comply with the quality workplace standards we require to be in effect. This document is also available at www.dell.com/downloads/global/ corporate/vision_national/Sup_codeofconduct.pdf.
See page 37 for details.

As a global leader, Dell is focused on areas and issues where our practices can bring positive impact, in particular in the developing world. Examples of such are:

? Joining the Global Business Coalition on HIV/AIDS. The HIV pandemic potentially  will have a devastating effect in countries around the world where Dell’s customers, suppliers and partners are located. Dell is committed to doing our part to fight the spread of HIV/AIDS. See page 15 for details.
? Continuing to focus on diversity and, in particular, women’s rights globally by supporting the Calvert Women’s Principles, a comprehensive code of corporate conduct focused on promot- ing gender equality and women’s empowerment (see page 16 or www.calvertwomensprinciples.com for more details).
Dell’s direct business model guides our commitment to direct engagement with employees, customers and suppliers. We also engage in direct dialogue with socially responsible investment groups, shareholder activists, and a wide variety of nongovern- mental organizations that are seeking business engagement to find global solutions for many social and environmental concerns.

While we have learned much this year, we realize there is much more to learn about the challenges facing our society and the responsibility Dell has to help meet those challenges. This year’s report lays out not only the more significant challenges Dell is addressing, but also a set of goals for the coming year. We
believe that we have the right team, business model, values, part- ners and stakeholders to support Dell on this important journey.

Michael S. Dell
Chairman of the Board

Kevin B. Rollins
President and Chief Executive Officer

----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Dell 2006

From the Chairman and the CEO

Welcome to Dell's sustainability report for fiscal year 2006, an annual summary that both highlights our efforts to create sustain- able business practices and reflects our challenges in doing so. This report contains a sampling of the work going on at Dell as we progress towards our goal of being an environmentally and socially responsible market leader.

To meet our business goals, we follow  a core set of values that defines the kind of company we are and aspire to become. Our mission is to fully integrate sustainable development and man- agement practices into our business of providing quality products, best-in-class services, and the best customer experience at the best value. We find there is a great challenge, and potentially great rewards, in finding solutions that not only meet our busi- ness goals, but also improve our environmental and societal impact around the globe.

This report is divided into three categories: Corporate Accountability, Environmental Responsibility and Community Engagement. As in previous years, this report uses the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Sustainability Reporting Guidelines (available on the Internet at: www.globalreporting.org) and
is an expansion of Dell's Year in Review report (available online at www.dell.com/annualreports).

Highlights in several key areas for fiscal year 2006 include:

Product Recovery and Recycling Dell remains committed to making product retirement as easy for customers as product pur- chase, and we met our goal to increase product recovery in fiscal year 2006, recovering more than 18 million kilograms of used equipment for reuse or recycling. We recognize the challenges
of recycling practices in a number of geographies and remain focused on expanding product recovery services to new markets.

Chemical Use Dell introduced our new chemical use policy, which outlines our approach to selecting substances to use in and eliminate from our product design. This policy also confirms our commitment to prohibit the use of all brominated flame retardants in our products by 2015.

Design for the Environment Dell will meet the requirements of the European Union's Restriction on Hazardous Substances Directive  (RoHS), which becomes effective in July of 2006. Dell remains focused on implementing these design requirements on our global product lines. We were also pleased that our Product Group's environmental  management system achieved ISO 14001 certification last year.

Workplace Health and Safety Dell was honored last year to increase the number of our U.S. facilities  that have achieved STAR certification from the Occupational Safety and Health Administration (OSHA), recognizing our efforts  to provide safe workplaces for all our employees. Our efforts to promote employee wellness also continue around the globe.

Supplier Principles Dell continued our efforts to ensure good working conditions for employees across our supply chains, and we remain an active member of the Implementation  Group of the Electronic Industry Code of Conduct (EICC), which is helping to drive industry-wide standards for good labor practices. We recog- nize the complexity and challenges in this area and will remain focused on measured improvements in the coming year.

Community Engagement  Dell is committed to being a good neighbor in the communities that we call home. Our company and employees have undertaken many efforts worldwide  to help build those communities, especially as Dell grows and opens facilities  in new markets around the globe.

Dell continues to be guided by direct engagement with employees, customers, suppliers and other stakeholders. Dell relies on regular dialogue with associations ranging from global nongovernmental organizations and community groups to socially responsible investment groups. We depend on this dialogue to help guide our work in building a sustainable business.

We are thankful for the efforts of the entire Dell team to meet these commitments and put our values into action around the globe. We recognize that even with this progress, our work in this arena is still in the beginning stages. Dell remains focused on continued progress both as a business leader and as an environmentally and socially responsible company.

Michael S. Dell
Chairman of the Board


Kevin B. Rollins
President and Chief Executive Officer

----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Dell 2007

FROM THE CHAIRMAN AND CEO                                                                                                     

I am pleased to introduce Dell’s Sustainability Report for our company’s fiscal year 2007. This report measures our progress towards instituting  sustainable business practices, describes our challenges and sets goals for continued improvement.

We’ve titled this report Values in Action. Values inspire behaviors. And it’s our behaviors and actions we hope you will use to evaluate our company’s efforts. Judge us not by what we say, but by what you see us do. In this year’s report we’ve included perspectives from many of our stakeholders ? environmental- ists, investors, community members and suppliers. Their input remains vitally important in our efforts to create a sustainable business. Their voices help tell the Dell story.

We also celebrate our successes over the past year, including these important developments:

Global Recycling: In June of 2006, we committed to offering consumers no-charge recycling for any Dell-branded product at any time anywhere in the world. I’m pleased to report that our teams had global recycling services in place by December 2006. I challenged the industry to join us in providing free recycling for consumers, with no exceptions. It’s the right thing for our cus- tomers and for our planet. As of this writing,  we remain the only company in our industry that provides consumers no-charge, global recycling without  a purchase requirement. For details, see www.dell.com/recycling.

Design for Environment:  We continue to make strides in the environmental design of our products. We now meet the requirements of the European Union’s Restriction on the use of Hazardous Substances  (RoHS) directive glob- ally. We updated our chemical use policy, committing to eliminating the use of brominated flame retardants and polyvinyl chloride from product design by 2009. We made great strides in our Forest Products Stewardship program; our marketing publications  use on average 50 percent recycled content paper, meeting our 2009 goals three years early.

Customer Ownership: In 2006, we addressed energy efficiency by announc- ing a plan to build systems that deliver the greatest performance per watt from the desktop to the data center. Doing so will help our customers save money and help reduce carbon dioxide emissions. We’re making early progress toward  this goal. For example, our OptiPlex™ 745 uses up to 70 percent less energy than previous models when configured with a flat panel display. We also announced a new program in January 2007 called “Plant a Tree for Me.”  The program takes donations from customers to plant trees to offset the carbon dioxide generated by the production of electricity  used to power their computers. Plant a Tree for Me and programs like it allow Dell to leverage our direct relationships with customers and educate them about energy efficiency and climate change.

Diversity and Ethics: We received recognition this year for our efforts to cre- ate an inclusive workplace. We were honored to receive the Opportunity Award by the U.S. Secretary of Labor, the country’s highest award recognizing voluntary workplace diversity efforts among federal contractors. For the third year in a row, we received a score of 100 percent on the Human Rights Campaign’s annual Corporate Equality Index. Our extensive Ethics Day cam- paign included employee events at our facilities around the world to under- score the importance we place on conducting ourselves according to the highest ethical standards.

We have made progress, but we recognize we’re on a journey that doesn’t end. We will increase our engagement in the communities we call home around the world, and continue our efforts to fight the spread of HIV/AIDS. We will continue to work constructively with those in our global supply chain to drive our own high standards for workplace practices and safety, and continue to drive awareness of and adoption of the Electronics Industry Code of Conduct, sometimes called "The Code," or simply "EICC."

Over the course of the year, our commitment to corporate responsibility  has deepened. Being responsible for our environment is part of the total customer experience that we provide and, as such, is integral to our success. We will continue to focus on our challenge to identify new viable materials and further communicate our ethical sourcing standards.

I am personally committed to our company’s sustainability  journey. My passion stems not only from the business benefits of leading in this area, but also from my personal values and concern for future generations. So please carefully read our report. See the progress we made toward our goals. Judge us by our actions; tell us how we are doing.

Michael S. Dell
Chairman and CEO

----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Dell 2008
MICHAEL DELL

Last year was one of significant change  for Dell ? just as we grew as a company, so did  our commitment to corporate responsibility. In fact, we signifi- cantly increased sustainable operations of our business  and had some of our most impor- tant  achievements to date, including:

? Committing on World Environment Day to make Dell the greenest technology company on the planet. More than ever before, we are integrating consideration of the environment into  our business  processes and product design  to deliver the industry’s most energy-efficient products, save energy and deploy green  power at our own  facilities, and maintain our recycling leadership. We know that  people of all ages around the globe who  care about protecting the Earth expect no less.
?  Pledging to make Dell’s operations carbon neutral beginning in 2008. We’ll  meet  this commitment through a program of improvements that  save energy, using  green  energy at our facilities where available and economical, and offsetting
our remaining impact. I’m pleased  to report that  our global headquarters campus in Round  Rock, Texas, is now  powered by 100 percent green  energy sources.
?  Committing to producing energy-efficient products that  deliver the most performance per watt for our customers. Energy-efficient products not only  help reduce our customers’ operating costs, they  can help reduce the associated climate impact of those  products. Our estimates are that  the changes on our desktop products alone have saved our customers
$2.4 billion in energy costs. And  we are working with our enterprise customers around the world to make data  centers more productive and energy-efficient.
?  Launching ReGeneration.org, a global meeting place  that  enables  people to learn about going “green,” share ideas and protect the environment. Through it, we’re  bringing together experts, customers, stakeholders and others to foster mean-  ingful dialogue on the environment ? dialogue that  will lead to action and results.

?  Continuing our focus on environmentally responsible product design.  We continue to take a precautionary approach to ma- terials selection and continue to find  ways to reduce product packaging and integrate recyclable packaging solutions. Our Multipack solution for multiple server  orders last year reduced collateral materials shipped by 75 percent. It avoids  the use of thousands of tons of cardboard and allows  more  shipments to fit on trucks, thereby conserving fuel in shipping.
?  Joining the (PRODUCT)RED™ campaign, which raises funds  to buy  anti-retroviral drugs  for HIV-positive individuals in Africa. We are committed to the fight against HIV and to saving  lives. This pandemic affects our customers, employees, suppliers and communities around the globe,  and the
increase  in infection rates is of great concern. During the year, we updated our global nondiscrimination policies to include HIV status among protected categories.

We have many  challenges to meet  on our continued journey. We are making Dell a stronger and greener company. We continue  to work with our suppliers worldwide to share our sustain- ability best practices and ensure  they  are employing our own  high  standards for workplace and employee policies and safety.

Our goal remains  the same ? we want Dell to be the world’s greatest technology company and make a meaningful differ- ence in protecting our planet and building our communities. Thank you for the ongoing support of our efforts to make our company better each year. I’m proud to present this report representing the hard work of the Dell team around the world.

I’m also happy to report that  we hired  a vice president of Corporate Responsibility to manage our ambitious environmental and social  commitments.

Gil Casellas has the experience to align  our philanthropic, diversity and sustainability efforts and further enhance  our corporate responsibility programs.

Michael  S. Dell
Chairman and CEO

----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Dell 2009

A Message from Michael Dell

Dell has a full-time commitment to being  a responsible corporate citizen.  It’s a commitment driven by the types of goals, strategies and accountabilities that  characterize every  part  of our business. And  it’s one that  persists  through all business cycles.

Our customers, our partners and our people appreciate Dell’s leadership in this area, and we’re proud of our accomplishments. Among our recent achievements:
)>        We remain  determined to be the greenest technology company on the planet,  and last year we achieved carbon neutrality in our global operations. At the same time, we raised the standard Dell has set for IT consumer recycling. With innovative new products and services, we’re  helping customers significantly increase  energy efficiency, along  with performance, in their  data centers.  And  Dell Green Teams around the world are educating employees, promoting awareness and inspiring positive actions for the environment.
)>        We became a charter member of the Business Ethics  Leadership Alliance, and, at the request of Dell stakeholders, are releasing  information about Dell’s Tier 1 suppliers.
)>        As part  of how  we make a difference in our global communities and to our employees, we started the Dell YouthConnect program for digital inclusion in emerging countries and, within the company, reinstated the Global  Diversity Council  that I’m proud to chair.

I invite you to read more  about Dell’s corporate responsibility efforts in this report and at dell.com, where  you will also find  detailed policy information.

We will continue to innovate, inspire  and make things happen in the corporate responsibility arena. That pledge recognizes that  for all we have done, there  is much  more  we can and will do ? so that you can count on Dell today and always.

Thanks for your  interest.

------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ Supplementary Information 

“Inspire & Innovate ? Our View of Corporate Responsibility”

“Dell  has a unique ability to quickly learn, adapt and evolve to ever- changing customer requirements. We showed that  again in fiscal 2009, even as we were  transform- ing our own  business. Our solid operating performance in the first two quarters was muted by the soft global economic environment in the second half of the year, which caused  many  customers to defer technology purchases. Even so, customers who  continued to invest in technology increasingly asked Dell to help them  reduce the cost and complexity of IT. Within the company, we turned our focus to increasing efficiency, ensuring prof- itability and carefully managing our balance sheet and cash flow.”

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

A Message from Gil Casellas

Welcome to Inspire & Innovate: Achievements in Corporate Responsibility
2009. This report features Dell’s key accomplishments in the areas of environmental responsibility, corporate accountability and social responsibility and is filled  with examples of inspiring activities of dedicated Dell employees around the globe. Our employees are the essence of our innovation, as evident in their  work with products, with people and in caring for our planet.  Throughout each section of this report, we highlight the actions our employees are taking to advance corporate responsibility.

Fiscal 2009 brought global economic challenges that continue to change the corporate landscape. This is a period of intense  change  for our employees and our company, and we have not faltered in our commitment to corporate responsibility as Dell continues its transformation.  Michael,
the Dell Leadership Team and the Board  of Directors are actively engaged and briefed as we put  corporate responsibility principles into  practice. In addition, the Corporate Responsibility Team works with numerous teams throughout Dell in addressing key initiatives in corporate responsibility. It is through their  support, engagement, collaboration and leadership that  we are able to share our progress.

Moving forward, the support of our customers, employees and stakeholders is more  important than ever. We welcome your  feedback on this summary report, its new format and the accompanying content at dell.com/corporateresponsibility. We appreciate your  guidance in producing this report and ask that you continue the conversation with us through our social media  tools, such as Direct2Dell, as this is an ongoing partnership.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Supplementary Information 

“Making a difference, Acting with integrity, Protecting our planet”

“At Dell, in any economic environment, we consider diversity and inclusion, sustainability and employee engagement integral parts  of our business  strategy. By continuing to drive these initiatives throughout the company, we’re  able to harness each individual’s full  potential, drive innovation and become a better place  to work ? ultimately ensuring that  we’re  providing the best customer experience.”

----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Dell 2010

Delivering on our  commitments

Successful, innovative companies tend to aspire to a greater purpose that goes beyond the bottom  line. At Dell, we have always believed that technology should be about enabling human potential. This belief has been a core part of our culture for the past 26 years, and today we define our company’s purpose around that singular idea: delivering technology solutions that enable people everywhere to grow and thrive.

We have a clear responsibility to our customers, employees and shareholders in bringing our purpose to life. That responsibility extends to the communities we serve and the planet we call home.

In my visits with customers, I’ve been inspired to see how our technology solutions and corporate initiatives are empowering people everywhere to achieve their goals and dreams.

Young people around the world are gaining the skills needed to become lifelong learners and tomorrow’s leaders through access to technology gained from our Connected Classroom and YouthConnect programs.

Hospitals are realizing the efficiency gains and patient care improvements that come with electronic medical records systems and streamlined IT operations.

Entrepreneurs and small business owners ? who play a key role in driving the growth of our global economy ? continue to inspire us all by leveraging Dell technology in unique ways to compete with significantly larger and more established businesses.

Helping people achieve more in their lives is both a direct result of our business and a rallying cry
for our corporate responsibility programs. Solving the challenges we face regarding education, health care, the economy and our planet requires a combination  of purpose-led business strategies and thoughtful global citizenship initiatives.

This report focuses on fiscal year 2010 corporate responsibility accomplishments and some of the challenges we faced. The year saw many firsts for Dell and our industry. To help make it easier for our customers to be environmentally conscious, we became the first technology company to add sustainable bamboo to our packaging portfolio. Our company also was the first to ban electronic waste exports to developing countries, and I’m happy to see others in our industry now doing
the same.


We also maintained excellence in incredibly impactful programs. We continued to support diverse suppliers and again are honored to be a member of the Billion Dollar Roundtable, having spent more than $1 billion with women- and minority-owned suppliers in the United States. Our giving efforts reached more than 1 million children this year. And for the sixth consecutive year, we earned a perfect score with the Human Rights Campaign.

We’re proud of these accomplishments, and we understand there will always be more to do. As we balance business priorities with our commitment to corporate responsibility, we promise to thoughtfully consider every stakeholder in the decisions that we make. Doing so will keep us true to our purpose and our responsibilities.


----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Dell 2011

Letter  from  Michael  Dell

Enabling human potential ? that’s the ultimate benefit of technology  and the driving force behind everything we do at Dell. We are listening to and partnering with our customers every day to deliver technology  solutions that help them operate, increase productivity  and enable human connections  at lightning speed and on the go. We call it the power to do more.

This core philosophy of advancing human potential is not limited to our solutions and product creation. We’re also applying it to how we invest in and innovate on behalf of our planet and our people. It is ingrained in our sustainability and giving practices as well as in our relationships with our global team.

In fiscal year (FY) 2011, we made great progress in our sustainability efforts. We continued to optimize our own footprint through responsible process and product improvements while focusing on making “green” convenient and practical for our customers. We reduced the energy consumption of our computers by 25 percent and institutionalized the use of sustainable bamboo packaging. We earned the top spot on Newsweek’s Greenest Companies in America list and continued  to lead the industry in important environmental  priorities like e-waste, data center efficiency and supply chain practices.

Our corporate giving programs ? largely centered on narrowing the technology  gap for underserved youth through access to technology  and education ? directly helped more than two million children in nine countries around the globe. We launched 65 Dell Connected Classroom solutions in China, India and Mexico, and continued to grow our signature giving program, Dell YouthConnect, worldwide. We also developed a cutting edge social network to facilitate our team’s engagement with the charitable organizations and causes that mean the most to them.

Helping all 103,000 Dell team members reach their own potential is also a priority. We know we can deliver better outcomes for our millions of customers by leveraging and embracing the unique experiences, talents and thinking of our diverse global team. Consequently, we remain committed to diversity and inclusion in every facet of our
business, a commitment that resulted in our ranking on DiversityInc.’s Top 25 Companies and Working Mother’s 100 Best Companies lists in FY11. We also earned a perfect score for the seventh year in a row on the Corporate Equality Index of the Human Rights Campaign.

We strive to be a great corporate citizen in everything we do at Dell. Our world holds boundless possibilities, which we see as a terrific opportunity for our industry. As we at Dell continue to deliver IT solutions that help millions of people around the world achieve their goals each day, we will always do so responsibly and with integrity.

Michael Dell Chairman and CEO Dell Inc.


----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Dell 2012

Letter  from  Michael  Dell

Powering the Possible is more than a statement about our commitment to corporate responsibility?it’s the truth about technology  and what it’s enabling in the world. We are amazed every day by the innovative ways in which our customers are using technology  to achieve great things, making possible today what was impossible yesterday.

At Dell, we’ve evolved our business to help our customers do more with technology. We’ve expanded our portfolio of offerings to meet the end-to-end technology needs of our customers, from data center solutions to cloud applications to end-user devices?and everything in between. We are doing so with a steadfast commitment to innovate and execute best practices on behalf of our people, our communities  and the planet we share.

In fiscal year 2012, we continued to optimize our own environmental footprint while developing new solutions and programs that make “green” easy for our customers. We are helping to develop the world’s first sustainable packaging made from mushrooms and are piloting it in our server shipments today. We are designing cloud and data center solutions that are raising the bar for energy efficiency. We installed a state-of-the-art modular data center on the roof of a customer’s building in Arizona; Dell’s fresh air capability allows it to run without chillers, despite the desert heat, and frees up 95 percent of the center’s power consumption for computing.  And our server performance per watt has improved 10,000 percent over the past 10 years?just one reason we were ranked among the top five of Newsweek’s Greenest Companies in America
for the third consecutive year.

We also have an innovative approach to engaging in the global community. In fiscal year 2012, we launched a groundbreaking partnership with the Translational Genomics Research Institute. This collaboration employs Dell technology  and resources to connect physicians and researchers, accelerating personalized treatment for children with cancer. The project speeds the genomic analysis time, from weeks to less than a day, and uses that critical information to deliver targeted patient care. We also partnered with the American Red Cross to develop the first-ever digital operations center, a tremendous resource that uses social media to monitor  and operationalize humanitarian aid during disasters. And, expanding the use of social media inside our company, we used our own social platform to connect the Dell team to charitable causes and organizations they care about. Last year alone, our team members logged 419,000 volunteer hours in 52 countries.

Our team and partners are the backbone of our company and we work every day to create an environment  in which they can be their best and do their best work. We know we can deliver better outcomes for our customers by embracing the unique experiences, talents and thinking of our diverse global team. This is not rhetoric?it’s a principle that guides everything we do at Dell. In fiscal year 2012, we were ranked among the leaders in workplace diversity by DiversityInc, Working Mother magazine, and the Human Rights Campaign. We also joined the Sustainable Trade Initiative to proactively influence and improve working conditions for the roughly half-million workers at electronics suppliers in China.

We strive to be a global leader in every aspect of our business and to do so with the utmost integrity and ethics. We are proud to share our progress in the following pages of this report and to demonstrate how we’re innovating at Dell to put our technology  and expertise to work, creating new possibilities for our customers, partners, neighbors, team and planet.

Michael Dell Chairman and CEO Dell Inc.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             








