------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ TOTAL SA 2013

When you co-chaired the World Economic Forum in Davos in early 2014, your closing remarks focused on climate change. Was that your way of bringing energy companies back into the debate? 

Christophe de Margerie: One of the things I noticed at Davos was that climate change has finally become a genuine priority. As the global population increases, driving further growth in energy demand, the issue is becoming even more complex. We all know that the responses will have to address this trend and ensure a sufficient supply of energy at affordable prices. So, like it or not, energy companies are not just part of the problem, we¡¯re also part of the solution. We can no longer be kept out of the climate change discussions that precede negotiations among world leaders. And I also believe that, rather than simply participating in the discussion, energy companies have a duty to provide decision-makers with a better idea of what can reason-ably be achieved and when ? and if more needs to be done, at what cost. 

How are you contributing to the energy transition that needs to take place in order to combat climate change? 

C. de M.: Total has been implementing measures to reduce greenhouse gas emissions for more than ten years. Our efforts target several avenues. First, we are actively promoting the emergence of a more diverse energy mix. For example, by staying the course as our SunPower affiliate rode out the slump, we have now achieved our objective of becoming a global leader in solar energy. We are aware of the progress that still needs to be made for solar energy to achieve genuine cost-competitiveness, and it will be some time before new energies replace the ones currently available. In the meantime, we need to tackle the issue of climate change with an energy mix dominated by fossil fuels.

One solution is to increase the use of natural gas, which now accounts for half of Total¡¯s resource production. With a much smaller carbon footprint than coal when used for power generation, natural gas is set to become the world¡¯s transitional fossil fuel. 

Another key avenue for improvement is to enhance the energy efficiency of our facilities and our products and services. This is often seen by our stakeholders as the easiest way to combat climate change. But it¡¯s important to remember that efficiency gains are achieved through technological advances, which require considerable R&D and investment. We have also made a public commitment to gradually eliminate gas flaring, which is a significant source of greenhouse gas emissions in our operations.

Oil and gas are vital resources and remain our core business. But it¡¯s not just ¡°business as usual,¡± because climate change is considered every time we make a strategic decision.

You often argue in favor of a more integrated approach to corporate social responsibility. Can more be done in this area? 

C. de M.: I certainly think it¡¯s a shame that, very often, people look at our financial results and our corporate social responsibility performance separately. In fact, many of our investors have different people looking at these two areas, so they never get a balanced view of our overall performance. But there aren¡¯t two Totals, one focused on business and the other on corporate social responsibility. On the contrary, CSR is fully integrated into our strategy, our business model and our day-to-day operations. 

Total probably achieved integration earlier than other companies because our industry elicits such high expectations about how we should manage our environmental impact and deliver benefits for the economy at the same time. Our operational managers find themselves engaging with stakeholders constantly, because their responsibility doesn¡¯t end when they¡¯re off the clock. I can assure you that no one at Total today thinks we can conduct our business without taking into consideration the environment in which we operate. This applies to both our strategic vision and our frontline operations. The aim of this report is to illustrate this integrated approach. 

These days, cost discipline is also one of Total¡¯s key operational priorities. How is this affecting your corporate social responsibility commitment, given the cost associated with acting responsibly?

C. de M.: It¡¯s true that managing costs is critical to the long-term viability of our operations, but safety is non-negotiable. The only way we can continue to do business is by operating safely. That¡¯s why we will never stop investing in training, campaigns to heighten vigilance and other initiatives that ensure the safety of our teams and asset integrity. On the other hand, we can and must leverage our capacity for innovation to find new, more efficient and cost-effective ways to design our projects and conduct our operations. The soaring costs prevalent in the industry for the last decade or more are becoming a real problem. Since 2011, oil prices have stabilized while project costs have continued to climb by 7 or 8% per year. Obviously, project complexity and higher social and environmental standards are part of the equation. But a large portion of the blame can be attributed to higher raw material prices ? believe it or not ? as well as to the supply and demand situation within the industry.

To explain what I mean, let¡¯s look at a real-world example. For the same level of complexity, a deep offshore drilling rig cost around $100,000 to $200,000 a day in the early 2000s, compared with $500,000 to $600,000 today. Unless this sort of price inflation is reined in, we won¡¯t be able to continue investing. And it needs to happen now. Otherwise, projects are going to be delayed, which means that production will eventually shrink while energy demand continues to grow. We could then see a new surge in oil prices, with consequences for the global economy that no one wants to experience again. When we¡¯re talking about responsibility, this is a key issue. We have a responsibility to maintain our company¡¯s investment capacity, which is critical to our long-term viability, and we also have a responsibility to raise the red flag about industrial inflation, an issue that goes well beyond the oil and gas sector.

Can the costs associated with meeting social and environmental standards be sustained, under these circumstances?

C. de M.: Anything that helps to protect our environment is a necessity, not a luxury. We therefore have a collective responsibility to accept the fact that cleaner energies are more expensive. It¡¯s too bad that this subject is so often discussed in conflicting, black-and-white terms: Should we protect consumers¡¯ purchasing power or the environment? To be acceptable, the additional cost must be clearly explained and gradually introduced. Phasing in the additional cost over time is important, both for consumers and for the companies that have to invest in innovation, adjust their products and find new solutions. That¡¯s why business leaders argue so hard for greater visibility over regulatory changes and a more gradual approach. We¡¯re not trying to evade our responsibilities; it¡¯s just that some things take time. 

What about community engagement? Host countries have high expectations for job creation and there¡¯s been a rapid increase in local content across all Total projects.

C. de M.: Host governments and communities expect, quite rightly, that our investments will also create significant value for them. The rapid improvement is due first and foremost to the fact that we have completely rethought the way we do things, so that local content is now integrated into our projects very early in the design phase. It¡¯s no use waiting until the call for tenders has been issued to start thinking about the capacity available locally. Everything has to be prepared in advance. For example, training programs have to be initiated years before the scheduled start-up of operations and a prequalification process has to be set up to give local businesses time to meet our standards. Sometimes we even support the creation of new streams in local schools or universities. Angola provides a good example of how these investments produce results over an extended period of time. On the Pazflor project, which came on stream in 2011, more than 3 million hours of work were performed locally. With CLOV, we expect to reach 11 million hours. 

Gauging the long-term effectiveness and impact of our community engagement initiatives is one area where we still need to improve. To help prioritize our initiatives, we need to know whether their impact on the local economy, and particularly job creation, is sustainable or only temporary. At the same time, local capacity building must not compromise our projects¡¯ competitiveness over the long haul. 

Planning ahead is a theme of this report. Do you think it¡¯s a key success factor?

C. de M.: It¡¯s certainly a factor in the successful integration of business and CSR objectives. A responsible company is one that deploys the necessary resources, before the final investment decision, to assess not only the opportunities involved, but also the risks and its ability to manage them. Looking out for subtle clues so that we can anticipate change and give our teams and suppliers time to adapt also gives us a competitive advantage. There¡¯s a lot of talk about the energy transition, and rightly so, but we also need to discuss the changes it entails for energy companies. To find the leeway necessary to build the future, we need to put all the issues on the table as soon as possible and discuss them without prejudice.?
