------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Total 2004

Foreword by Thierry Desmarest
Chairman and Chief Executive Officer

This is Total¡¯s third corporate social responsibility report. What does this process mean to you?

The CSR report is one of the most effective ways we have of expressing our commitment  to open dialogue with our partners and with civil society. People expect a lot from us because of the industry we¡¯re in, our size, our financial clout and our geographic reach. We¡¯re asked about our work practices, our ethical principles, our industrial safety performance, our environmental stewardship, and our contribution to employment, research and local development. People also want to know how we see the future of energy and of the climate.

It¡¯s only natural that we respond by sharing our vision of the future and reporting on what we do. In addition, corporate social responsibility is driving continuous improvement,  since we have our own questions and problems. We need to hear what people from outside the organization have to say, so transparency, dialogue and feedback are critical to the way we exercise corporate social responsibility.

Why did oil and gas prices soar in 2004 and how will this affect your CSR process?

The increase stems from stronger than anticipated growth in world demand at a time when there is little spare production capacity and when conflicts or technical incidents in several regions have sparked fears of shortages. The tension, which has continued through early 2005,  is forcing people to look more carefully at the future of energy. Everyone knows that oil consumption cannot be allowed to continue to grow at the current pace, because resources are finite and the climate is under threat. Combined with the very favorable impact of higher prices on oil company earnings, this growing awareness is focusing the spotlight on the specific responsibilities of oil companies. Through our exploration operations, capital expenditure and innovation, we help to ensure a steady supply of oil and gas to the market. But we also have to help secure a future where sources of energy will be more diversified, available resources will be used more responsibly and their environmental impact will be better managed.

How is Total helping to secure the future of energy?

The transition from one energy to another takes place over several generations. Today, fossil fuels?oil,  gas and coal?  account for 80% of global energy demand, and their contribution will decline only slowly. Therefore, securing the future of energy consists in part of finding and developing new oil and gas reserves.

The fast growth in demand is raising complex technical challenges, such as optimizing production from existing fields, developing fields in ever-deeper water or extreme geographic conditions, making very viscous oil usable, and expanding the gas chain by creating large liquefaction  plants and the associated logistics. We already make a major contribution  to securing the future of energy just by doing our job right and maintaining our high capital expenditure commitment.

Energy sources will be more diversified in the future?something  we¡¯ve anticipated through our long-standing exploration of renewable energies. We¡¯re active in two areas of solar power?  manufacturing photovoltaic panels and installing them in sparsely populated areas. We¡¯re also present in wind power, commissioning five high-power  wind turbines in Dunkirk, France, in 2003. Since then, we¡¯ve responded to a number of tenders for new projects. In another area, we¡¯ve created a pilot unit to test the use of hydrogen in the transportation segment. We¡¯re also the leading French operator in biofuels and can track nuclear industry developments through our interest in Areva, France¡¯s nuclear power specialist.

Given your business, you¡¯re directly concerned by the issue of climate change. What¡¯s your policy in this area?

We met our greenhouse gas emissions reduction targets in 2004,  one year ahead of time. That will let us move forward the definition of new, more ambitious targets. Two milestones with implications for our businesses were reached in 2004?  Russia¡¯s ratification  of the Kyoto Protocol has finally enabled the agreement to come into force, while the European Union introduced  a trailblazing emissions trading scheme that is being deployed by companies in Member States. Last year, we also improved our processes for measuring emissions and are now setting up a trading system.

Climate change is a global issue that can only be resolved if the biggest emitting  countries cooperate. The Kyoto Protocol is a first step, but only covers one-third  of emissions. Now we have to develop a new framework  acceptable not only to the United States, but also to the biggest economies in transition, especially India and China, who don¡¯t want to sacrifice their growth.

In this environment, I believe that energy efficiency?consuming  less energy for the same result?could  be a critical improvement driver. The potential savings are considerable and higher energy prices are a strong incentive. We¡¯re performing  a detailed audit of ways to reduce energy consumption in our production facilities. We¡¯re also willing to support campaigns encouraging consumers to be civic-minded  when they use energy.

Another auspicious area for strengthened international cooperation is research and innovation. There¡¯s still a lot to do to develop technologies that generate fewer emissions, especially in the transportation segment, and to capture carbon dioxide emitted by large industrial facilities and sequester it in geological reservoirs. We¡¯re closely involved in joint programs in these areas.

Non-OECD countries account for 60% of your oil and gas production. To what extent does Total feel a responsibility for their growth and the way they use their oil revenues?

This is an important issue for us. There are a lot of examples demonstrating  the complexity of the relationship between oil and development. But I think  that developing  a country¡¯s oil and gas resources can promote the emergence of a modern industrial base and serve as a foundation for economic and social development.

We pay particular  attention to ensuring that our operations have a positive impact on host countries in terms of jobs, training and local sourcing. We look very closely at the potential impact of our operations on neighboring communities and work hand-in-hand with public authorities on these issues, making sure that we don¡¯t interfere with their responsibilities. We also leverage the advice of development specialists. We participate, often through NGOs operating  in the field,  in initiatives  to enhance  local  health  care and education and to encourage the creation of sustainable businesses.

Although such support measures are important, they don¡¯t address the fundamental issue of how host countries use their oil and gas revenues. Often, the lack of an appropriate public governance system means that the people concerned have no effective control over these revenues. That¡¯s what makes the Extractive Industries Transparency Initiative, or E.I.T.I., so important. Transparent revenue streams are the cornerstone of genuine debate on development policy priorities.
We¡¯ve supported the E.I.T.I. from the outset and are ready to help interested producing  countries move forward to implement  it. From this point of view, Nigeria¡¯s implementation is an encouraging sign. How oil revenues are shared is a major source of tension in Nigeria, and the government¡¯s pursuit of transparency will be critical to ensuring that these revenues serve development effectively.

To really uphold your principles, shouldn¡¯t you stay out of countries where human rights are violated, such as Sudan and Myanmar?

Exploration operations in Sudan began in 1980,  but were suspended 20 years ago because of the civil war in the southern region of the country. Encouraged by genuine peace talks between the parties in the conflict, we recently updated contract terms to be able to resume operations if circumstances permit and if we can apply our principles  and Code of Conduct.
Provided that they take place in a settled political framework, oil operations that respect human rights can make a strong contribution  to Sudan¡¯s stability and development.

Despite the criticisms aimed at Total in this area, the same belief underpins our continued presence in Myanmar. Unfortunately, the political climate has not yet improved, to say the least.
But our support for local development has continued to expand. In early 2005,  we helped to deploy a program to support and treat people living with HIV/AIDS in the Mandalay region.

What were your employee relations priorities in 2004?

The main priority was enhancing the diversity of our managers. Total¡¯s international reach is reflected in the 130 nationalities represented in our management teams. But one major imbalance still has to be corrected?most  of our senior executives are still French men. We¡¯ve introduced a number of action plans to enhance gender diversity, make our hiring more international, identify high potentials in our international subsidiaries and train local managers. As part of this process, in 2004  we created the Diversity Council, which is making practical recommendations and setting quantified  targets. In France, Total signed the Diversity Charter, which expresses the commitment of French companies to eradicating discrimination in hiring and career management.

Last year, we also worked to strengthen employee dialogue in Europe, signing a framework  agreement with our unions to create a European employee relations forum. This is the basis on which we¡¯re conducting  negotiations concerning equal opportunity and the financial and social support programs implemented during restructuring,  and particularly the role intrapreneurial programs could play in the process.

Despite reporting record profits, you¡¯re restructuring the Chemicals business, which entails job losses. Isn¡¯t that something of a contradiction?

No matter how necessary, well prepared and carefully implemented,  restructuring  is always painful for everyone involved, whether employees, contractors or communities.
But to survive, you have to adapt to market and technological developments. Arkema¡¯s vinyl products business operates in a highly competitive European market where there¡¯s too much capacity. We have to restore the business¡¯ competitiveness. Our financial health doesn¡¯t change that fact, but it does mean that restructuring can be conducted under the best possible conditions. With our full financial backing, Arkema is therefore modernizing this segment, supported by a five-year, ¢æ300-million capital program without any plant closures or layoffs. The project includes financial and social measures to support the restructuring  of the Saint-Auban facility, facilitate transfers within the Group and sustain local employment.

Corporate social responsibility is a voluntary process. Is that enough? Shouldn¡¯t it be governed by binding standards?

Of course rules are necessary. Our operations are subject to a wide variety of local legislation in most of our host countries, and we also comply with principles published by the OECD, the International  Labour Organization (ILO) and the Global Compact. But the voluntary commitment  of companies  to moving forward  is what underpins the steady improvement in practices. The way companies present their sustainable development performance is increasingly standardized, facilitating  analysis and comparison, thereby driving further improvement.
European companies have made significant  progress in this area, and I¡¯m pleased. I believe that our genuine commitment to corporate social responsibility is a very important factor in ensuring Total¡¯s long-term viability.

------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Total 2005
Foreword by Thierry Desmarest
Chairman and Chief Executive Officer

Total reported a record profit of ¢æ12 billion in 2005. What¡¯s your response to critics?
Our earnings reflect not just soaring oil prices, but also the hard work of our teams across all three core businesses. They reward our expertise, the diversity of our international operations, and our investment strategy. Our size and solid financial base are strengths that enable us to compete successfully in an industry dominated by national oil companies in the leading producing countries. These strengths underpin our strategic independence and our long-term viability.

Where do the profits go? To enrich shareholders? Or else to investment projects or employees?
Our priority every year is to develop profitable new projects that will allow us to continue to grow production across our businesses. Our capital expenditure rose last year to $13.9 billion from $8 billion in 2002, and we plan to keep it that high for the foreseeable future.

Dividends and share buybacks gave shareholders a return on their investment of around 6% in 2005, in line with market expectations. That¡¯s our way of rewarding their loyalty and thanking them for their confidence in Total.

Our employees benefit, too?80,000 of them own shares, accounting for close to 3.75% of the shareholder base at the end of first-quarter 2006. And our compensation and benefits policy gives all our employees a stake in our outstanding financial performance.

What about the people in your host countries? Do they benefit from higher oil and gas prices?
That¡¯s an especially important question for us, since two- thirds of our oil and gas production now comes from non- OECD countries. Our presence has to generate tangible local benefits. We make sure that we contribute to the local economy through jobs, purchases of goods and services, training, and technology transfers.

In addition, our operations generate significant revenue for host countries, and the way it is spent is a major concern for them. Our upstream business will pay close to ¢æ11 billion in taxes for 2005. That¡¯s why we support accurate information on payments. The Extractive Industries Transparency Initiative (EITI), which we back, is starting to pay off, and we¡¯re currently helping several countries to prepare for the publication of their oil revenues. As well, our Code of
Conduct condemns bribery and corruption, and we make sure that we practice what we preach.
With the support of associations and in agreement with local authorities, we¡¯re deploying a wide array of initiatives to benefit the communities near our facilities. We spent ¢æ90 million on outreach initiatives in 2005, of which ¢æ73 million in non-OECD countries, covering education, health, support for agriculture, support for startups, and other areas. Recent initiatives include an agreement signed in 2005 with Institut Pasteur to promote the prevention, diagnosis and treatment of infectious diseases in a variety of countries.

Oil and gas supply has had a hard time keeping up with demand in the last two years. Should we be getting ready for the post-oil era? What¡¯s Total doing?

Shifting the global energy balance will take time. Oil and gas will continue to meet at least 60% of demand for decades to come. But if demand continues to grow at this pace, global production will peak sooner, not later, for geological reasons. By reining in world consumption, in particular by enhancing energy efficiency, and focusing oil on transportation and petrochemical applications, we¡¯ll gain time to develop the alternative energies we¡¯ll eventually need. While paying attention to managing our own energy consumption, we are also investing and innovating to develop non-conventional resources, such as deepwater reserves and extra-heavy crude oil. In addition, gas?particularly liquefied natural gas? will account for an increasing share of our production.

How is Total helping to diversify energy supply and develop renewable energies?

Today, Total is a European leader in biofuels. We are also well established in solar energy, as well as in wind power, where we were recently selected to build a 90 MW wind farm project in southern France. To help secure the future, a five- year, ¢æ500-million program was approved in 2005, covering renewable energies and new energy technologies such as fuel cells and processes to produce automotive fuel from syngas and biomass.

Securing the future of energy will require more diversified sources of energy, as well as advances in processes. We¡¯ll be contributing our capacity to develop new technical solutions on an industrial scale.

You mentioned that oil and gas will continue to play a key role. But don¡¯t their greenhouse gas emissions constitute a serious threat to the climate?

Balancing the use of oil and gas with protecting the climate is a critical challenge that requires a planet-wide response.  In late 2005, the United Nations Climate Change Conference in Montreal showed some tentative signs of convergence, although for the time being the only countries taking a disciplined approach to applying the Kyoto Protocol are the European Union member states.

We continued our work on managing emissions last year, focusing on enhancing the energy efficiency of our processes and, upstream, eliminating flaring of gas from our production operations. We are actively working on capturing and storing carbon dioxide and are taking part in a number of cooperative programs in this area, including an industrial pilot recently launched at the Lacq site in France.

There are risks associated with petroleum product and chemical production, storage and transportation. Tell us about Total¡¯s industrial safety policy.

Our approach combines accurate analysis of technological risks and a safety culture that we want to be an automatic reflex. The safety of people, the integrity of our installations and the management of our logistics operations are critical factors in our industrial performance. We¡¯ve made a lot of progress in the last five years, but there¡¯s still a lot to be done. We aim to be among the best in class.

Should multinationals make a more direct commitment to human rights?

Although governments bear the primary responsibility for upholding human rights, companies can set an example that promotes human rights and encourages their respect. In countries where human rights are under threat, we have to be particularly vigilant. That¡¯s why we keep communication channels open with civil society and local communities.
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Total 2006

Foreword

Chairman of the Board of Directors
by Thierry Desmarest

Our operations carry with them a number of specific obligations. In our businesses, ethical conduct and a continuous focus on industrial safety and environ- mental stewardship are givens. And with our exten- sive presence in  developing countries, we  place particular emphasis on ensuring that our activities contribute to their growth. As well, we have a direct stake in issues relating to the future of energy and the climate.
Addressing these critical issues should guide us all as we carry out our core mission, which is to pro- duce new oil and gas resources to meet constantly growing global demand, process them into petro- leum products and chemicals, and help to develop the energies of the future.
We can be proud of what we have already achieved and of the ongoing improvements in our corporate social responsibility performance, described in this, our fifth Corporate Social Responsibility Report. But we cannot and will not rest, given the scale of the challenges facing us, which include the pressing need to tackle climate change, our evolving relationship with produc- ing countries, and the necessary transition to more sustainable modes of energy consumption. Total can and should help to resolve these complex issues. This is why we are working with the other stakeholders and in partnership with governments, which are the only organizations with the authority to set the policy orientations that frame our initiatives.
Partnership and dialogue are the cornerstones of our idea of corporate social responsibility. They help us to adjust our continuous improvement process to real-world situations and expectations ? expectations that everyone at Total must strive to meet.

----------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Supplementary Information 

¡°Partnership and dialogue are the cornerstones of our idea of corporate social responsibility.¡±

---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Interview with 
Chief Executive Officer
Christophe de Margerie

Given the scale of the challenges associ- ated with securing the future of energy, how is Total planning to meet growing energy demand?
Our core business is oil and gas, the most widely used energy sources in the world,  along  with  coal.  Because the structure of  demand will change only slowly, Total¡¯s viability will for the fore- seeable future continue to be built on building block projects ? in exploration and production, the natural gas chain, refining and marketing, and chemicals ? that we are launching today and that we  have in reserve for  the  next two decades.
But for us, the future of energy entails the use of a more broadly diversified ar- ray of energies. That¡¯s why we¡¯re explor- ing the various options available to us. We¡¯re interested in all forms of energy, provided that  our  capabilities can  be deployed usefully and profitably, while continuing  to  uphold  our  Code  of Conduct.

Which energy sources is Total focusing on for the long term?
In addition to our established presence in solar power and first-generation biofu- els, we have expanded more recently into wind energy. We¡¯re also conducting R&D with different partners in areas such as biomass energy, synfuel production, more efficient photovoltaic systems and ocean energy. Total has a number of R&D centers that work with academic researchers worldwide, mainly on these new energies, whose development often depends on major technological break- throughs. Nuclear energy is also an option for the future, and we should be asking ourselves whether Total could play a role here.

Total is planning to grow its oil and gas production. Doesn¡¯t that contradict your commitment    to    combating    climate change?
It¡¯s a contradiction found on a planetary scale,  since  experts  predict  that  in
25 years¡¯ time fossil fuel consumption will be 20 to 50% higher than today. One of our main challenges is to help reconcile this trend with protecting the climate. We have  to  reduce  the  greenhouse gas emissions generated by our production and  manufacturing  operations.  That means enhancing the energy efficiency of our processes and flaring less associ- ated gas. We are also working to devel- op products that generate fewer emis- sions to  help  reduce  our  customers¡¯ footprint. In addition, we have to encour- age them to manage their consumption more efficiently. We¡¯re also implement- ing a pilot carbon dioxide capture and sequestration project in Lacq, in south- western  France,  to  develop  efficient processes so that energy-intensive plants no longer emit CO2.

A number of important producing countries  are  closing  their  doors  to  the majors, while you¡¯re experiencing com- petition  in  your  long-established  host regions from companies from emerging economies. If you want to maintain your ranking, won¡¯t you have to make conces- sions concerning the places you operate and your business ethics?
Our reputation is based on our technical and environmental excellence, the ability to  manage large projects, compliance with our Code of Conduct and our spirit of  partnership. We firmly believe that these strengths will guarantee our con- tinued  competitiveness.  We  should never squander them through compro- mise.
Geology dictates  where  we  operate. This means that, provided there are no laws preventing it, we sometimes work in countries beset by internal conflict or whose governance is open to criticism. In such circumstances, we have to be particularly attentive to our contribution to local economic and social develop- ment and to human rights issues. Our presence in Myanmar, the way in which we conduct operations in certain regions currently experiencing unrest and  our potential return to Sudan mean that we have a good understanding of the com- plexity of these situations and what we can contribute.
New oil operators, for instance compa- nies from certain emerging economies, do not always feel bound to uphold the same principles as we do, and that can create problems or distort competition.
I think that partnering with them in some of our projects could be a good way of exposing them to our values so that they eventually share them.

Total has committed to becoming more transparent  regarding its financial rela- tionships with producing country govern- ments.  How  much  progress  has  been made and do you really think that oil proj- ects can contribute to development?
Total attaches great importance to the local benefits of our projects. We work in partnership with host country govern- ments and in liaison with local commu- nities  and  civil  society  stakeholders. However, we are aware of the problems that often  arise  concerning the way in which revenues are shared among the various public  communities and  the way they are  spent. We firmly believe that these revenues should serve the sustainable development of producing countries and help to eradicate poverty there. Financial transparency encour- ages good governance, which moves us  closer to  this  goal  more  quickly. That¡¯s   why   we¡¯ve   supported   the Extractive    Industries    Transparency Initiative  (EITI) since it was launched in
2002. Our teams have worked hard to promote it to our host governments and to  deploy it in cooperation with local authorities.
In early 2007,  we  disclosed financial information on  our operations in four Gulf of Guinea countries ? Cameroon, Angola, Nigeria, and Gabon.  I hope their example will encourage our other host countries to follow in their footsteps.

Current legal proceedings have brought the Erika and AZF back to center stage. What has Total learned from these dis- asters?
Although  painful and  etched  in  our memories, they have also provided us with  opportunities to  re-examine our practices and further refine our policies. Because of the Erika sinking, we are now less likely to take other participants in the shipping chain at their word and have  toughened our  charter  criteria, especially with regard to the age of ves- sels. In addition, we have  lobbied the industry to  substantially increase the funds available to compensate victims of oil slicks.
We are disappointed that the cause of the AZF disaster still has not been iden- tified. But we are continuing our unflag- ging  efforts  to  prevent  technological risks at our sites and to rank as best in class in terms of safety.

How  important  is  corporate  social re- sponsibility to Total¡¯s strategy?
Corporate  social  responsibility should always underpin our technical and finan- cial analyses. We know that our opera- tions have an impact on the environment and  local  residents.  Accepting  our responsibility means recognizing that we play an important role in society, assert- ing  our  commitment  to  acting  as  a responsible global citizen, and willingly answering questions and responding to criticism.

----------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Supplementary Information 

¡°The future of energy entails the use of a more broadly diversified array of energies. ¡±

¡°We have to be particularly attentive to our contribution to local economic and social development and to human rights issues.¡±

------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Total 2007
Foreword

Every year, the Environment & Society, Our Corporate Responsibilities report gives us an opportunity to talk to stakeholders about how we address the multi-faceted challenges of our business.

Our principal responsibility is to meet the demand for energy on a sustainable basis. That primarily requires committing substantial capital expenditure and driving continuous innovation to grow our oil and natural gas production, while ensuring the safety and security of our employees, contractors and neighbors and constantly reducing our environmental footprint.

But we are also aware, like civil society, of the need to secure the longer-term future of energy. That¡¯s why we are deeply involved in biomass and solar energy processes and are stepping up our R&D initiatives and industrial applications in these areas.

Energy and climate issues are inextricably interwoven, which means that we have to help to reconcile the objectives of today¡¯s society, pursuing economic growth while protecting the climate for future generations. Fossil fuels play a central role in these divergent aspirations. Although they will continue to account for more than two-thirds of global energy supply for the foreseeable future, they are also the main source of carbon emissions from human activities. Faced with this predicament, we are assertively exploring two areas, energy management, in our own facilities and those of our customers, and technical solutions, such as CO2 capture and sequestration to reduce greenhouse gas emissions in the atmosphere.

Relationships between international oil companies and producing countries have changed. We have always paid close attention to ensuring that our activities deliver benefits for host countries, making sure that they contribute to their economic and social development.

As an engaged corporate citizen attuned to local aspirations, our core responsibility is to listen to our stakeholders and then creatively devise mutually beneficial solutions. This is the spirit that guided the partnerships we signed in 2007 with Venezuela and with Gazprom to develop the Shtokman field. We want our projects to create jobs and business for local contractors. We also want the tax revenue generated by these projects to flow transparently through to the treasury of our host countries.

For Total, being responsible means willingly facing up to the complex choices we must make, finding solutions to the problems we encounter, demonstrating professional discipline and unbending ethical conduct, delivering continuous improvements, informing, explaining, listening and dialoguing. Being responsible also means supporting all of our stakeholders ? employees, suppliers and service providers, customers, regions and neighboring communities. It means defending and helping to improve human rights in these communities. And it means making a tangible contribution to meeting expectations voiced, for example at France¡¯s Grenelle Environmental Forum or by the European Commission after the Bali Conference.


Interview with Christophe de Margerie
Chief Executive Officer

Oil, natural gas and coal aren¡¯t getting very good press these days, especially since their use releases the greenhouse gases that are threatening our climate. Aren¡¯t future generations going to blame Total for continuing to increase fossil fuel production even though you were well aware of the risks?
The climate change issue is indeed pressing, but the world also needs more and more energy. And it so happens that today, 80% of demand is being met by oil, natural gas and coal. It will be ages before carbon-neutral energy sources overtake fossil fuels, so for now, there¡¯s just no way around this contradiction. Admitting that doesn¡¯t mean we¡¯re somehow irresponsible; rather, it means we¡¯re facing the facts and using them to develop actionable, real-world solutions. We¡¯re helping to manage energy demand more efficiently, diversify supply and develop technical solutions that reduce greenhouse gas emissions. Our pilot CO2 capture and but finding and bringing them on stream does raise sequestration unit, scheduled to come on stream in late 2008 in Lacq, southwestern France, could enable thermal power plants, cement plants, refineries and other facilities to use fossil fuels without emitting carbon to the atmosphere. Spreading this technology would help to resolve part of the contradiction.

Total is committed to increasing production while also advocating more efficient energy management. Is that really a credible position?
Global energy demand is going to remain strong, because developing countries lag far behind industrialized nations. How can you justify dashing the hopes of the billion and a half people in the world who don¡¯t have electricity, or crushing the aspirations of people who want to own a car in China or India, where there¡¯s only one car per 50 or 100 inhabitants, compared with one for every two people in the West?
Total¡¯s primary responsibility is to help meet this demand on a sustainable basis. That¡¯s why we committed $16 billion in capital spending in 2007 and expect to invest $19 billion in 2008. I¡¯m delighted, for example, that the offshore Dalia and Rosa fields were recently brought on stream in Angola and that the Dolphin gas project between Qatar and the United Arab Emirates has been commissioned. We have a host of other building block projects under way or planned in the oil, natural gas, refining, marketing and petrochemical segments, to meet demand and help to secure supply.
On the demand side, however, genuine efforts must be made to bring it under control for two reasons, to protect the climate and to limit the risk of tight supply. We are paying very close attention to our own energy use, but the main challenge is to support our customers with products that produce fewer emissions and are more efficient, while delivering the same service. We have to help them heat their homes and businesses, to drive their cars and trucks ? all while managing their energy use more efficiently.

To grow its production, Total is taking part in very environmentally  risky projects in Canada and the Arctic Ocean. How can you justify this?
Canada¡¯s oil sands and the Arctic¡¯s natural gas potential, mainly offshore Russia, are among the few untapped oil and gas resources left. Thanks to advances in technology and today¡¯s high energy prices, they can now be developed cost-effectively, but finding and bringing them on stream does raise environmental issues that we are taking very seriously.
In Canada¡¯s Athabasca region, our Joslyn and Surmont projects are producing oil using energy-intensive processes that emit carbon dioxide. But we are committed to reducing their emissions because the market can¡¯t afford to turn its back on Canada¡¯s vast resources.
The Shtokman natural gas project, for which we signed a memorandum of understanding with Gazprom in 2007, means we will be working in an isolated environment, in the midst of fragile ecosystems. We are addressing this challenge in three ways: understanding the environment holistically, in all its aspects; designing environmental protection into the project; and taking precautions to limit the risks of spills.

Higher energy prices may be bad news for consumers and economic growth, but they¡¯re good for oil producing  countries and companies like Total. What¡¯s your take?
Prices of mining and agricultural commodities have soared in recent years, driven in particular by demand from Asia and the Middle East, in an environment of sustained global economic growth. But in addition to this demand pressure, the real reasons for higher prices are the reluctance of certain oil producing countries to increase their output and concerns about the political situation of many stakeholders. Speculation alone is not to blame, nor are the oil majors, who account for only 15% of global production ? and 23% of capital expenditure ? and are
therefore in no position to influence prices.
But are higher prices really good news for oil companies? It¡¯s true that they¡¯ve kept our profits high, at ¢æ12.2 billion in 2007, and allowed us to increase our dividend by 11%. Above all, they¡¯ve enabled us to double our capital spending budget over the last five years. They also benefit our contractors, who have sharply increased their prices in the overheated oil industry. But most of the additional revenue is going into the pockets of oil producing countries.
Certain developing countries without energy resources have been hard hit by higher prices. In the euro zone, this trend has been somewhat alleviated by the weak dollar. I realize that paying more for energy can be a hardship for consumers, but at a time when many are lobbying for the introduction of a carbon tax to encourage people to moderate their consumption, I think these prices may send the same message, and spur consumers to invest in less energy-intensive homes, heating systems and cars.

Demand pressure has given producing  countries the upper hand. Do Total and its peers still have enough influence to persuade them to increase their production capacity and avoid further market tension?
Clearly, at current prices, there¡¯s no incentive for most oil and gas producing countries to produce more. A number have taken advantage of the tight market to increase their share of oil revenue by tightening the tax system for operators or making it a legal requirement that national oil companies have majority control of operations. In Venezuela, for example, we agreed, after difficult negotiations, to reallocate the interests held by the Sincor project partners.
Our only chance of persuading producing countries to keep pace with world energy demand is to forge mutually beneficial partnerships that respond to local aspirations. Locals have high expectations for economic and social development. Many of our current projects involve gas liquefaction trains, refineries and petrochemical units that are helping to industrialize our host country economies. We make sure that our projects transfer knowledge, create local jobs and provide business opportunities for local contractors.
Our technological excellence is a key strength, allowing us to implement projects on time and on budget, which gives host countries the tax revenue needed to finance their development projects. But technological excellence is not enough. We have to act as a good corporate citizen, attuned to local needs, if we want our host countries to welcome us and accept our presence over the long term.

Those are fine-sounding  principles, but do you really contribute  to progress in your host countries? Some of them violate democracy  and human rights, and that doesn¡¯t seem to bother Total.
If democracy and reserves were found in the same places, life would be a lot easier for us, but sadly that¡¯s not the case. However, most of the time, poverty and lack of democracy go hand in hand. We always hope that sound development of a country¡¯s mineral resources will help it to take off economically, improve education and health care, promote the emergence of a class of businessmen and managers to succeed the ruling elite, and encourage an improvement in governance and democracy. We feel that transparent financial relationships with host country governments are critical to this process. It¡¯s not easy to set this type of virtuous circle in motion, but that¡¯s what we¡¯re aiming for. Some countries, such as Myanmar, seem to be falling far short of this goal. Although our hopes have so far been disappointed, as the serious events in September 2007 illustrated, we make no bones about wanting to stay there. Our main motive is not financial gain, since our activities there are fairly small compared with the Group as a whole. But for Myanmar, Total is a rare window still open to the West. Our presence benefits our local employees and host communities. We owe it to them to stay, and are still hopeful that change will come.
We are taking a similar attitude to our operations in Sudan, which were suspended 20 years ago but will be resumed when security conditions are right.

Total talks about developing renewable energies, but are you really going to do it? After all, they currently account for a very negligible percentage of your capital expenditure.
I think it¡¯s vitally necessary to broaden the range of energy sources in order to secure the future and protect the climate. Total is an energy producer and provider. We have been active in biofuels for a long time, on a very significant scale. We¡¯re interested in all forms of energy, provided they allow us to use our capabilities and put together cost-effective projects. We recently bolstered both the teams and budgets allocated to new energies. I believe that the most promising avenues for Total are photovoltaic solar energy and biomass, which we are already familiar with and where we expect a lot from R&D and innovation. I also believe that nuclear power will be a key ingredient in the energy mix. That¡¯s why we have teamed up with Suez and Areva for a nuclear power plant project in Abu Dhabi.

What does Total think of the various environmental initiatives undertaken in 2007, such as France¡¯s Grenelle Environment Forum, the European Commission¡¯s energy and climate package, and the United Nations Climate Change Conference in Bali?
Without going into too much detail, I¡¯d like to briefly touch on four points. First, this consensus-building process involving government, associations, businesses and unions has enabled stakeholders to listen to what everyone else has to say about the environment and better understand each other¡¯s expectations and needs. In this way, it has led to a number of practical recommendations. The process has also helped to break down the wall of distrust that too often separates business and civil society on these issues.
Second, we support the commitment expressed by France and the European Union to lead by example, but feel that this shouldn¡¯t be an excuse for overregulation. As far as possible, standards should be defined at the E.U. level, making sure that European companies remain competitive in the global marketplace.
Third, the climate issue is by nature a planet-wide concern. That¡¯s why I¡¯m so pleased that the United States and China returned to the fold at the Bali conference, with everyone pledging to reduce their emissions. Fourth and last, I can confirm that Total will actively participate in the various programs that support the often voluntary initiatives that we have deployed for many years. Experience has taught us, sometimes painfully, just how important environmental stewardship and safety are for Total, and how they can play such a critical role in driving continuous improvement and safety are for Total, and how they can play such a critical role in driving continuous improvement.

----------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Supplementary Information 

¡°We have to act as a good corporate citizen, attuned to local needs, if we want our host countries to welcome us and accept our presence over the long term.¡±

¡°I think it¡¯s vitally necessary to broaden the range of energy sources in order to secure the future and protect the climate.¡±
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Total 2008

Interview with Christophe De Margerie
Chief executive officer

Don¡¯t the economic crisis and slump in oil prices call into question Total¡¯s strategy of attempting to simultaneously boost your production, manage your impacts and secure the future of energy?
Our industry has not been spared by the crisis. The businesses and households that are our customers are consuming less, traveling less and spending less. The drop in the price of oil and gas automatically erodes our earnings. But that doesn¡¯t change the fundamental calculus of our strategy: global energy demand will start growing again because emerging economies have enormous needs in the areas of power and transportation. That means that sooner or later prices will rebound from current levels.
We still need to diversify energy sources, and international research published recently on the climate, biodiversity and water underscore how essential it is to step up efforts to protect our environment. So the current crisis does not alter our strategic vision ? we are still committed to meeting energy demand sustainably.

But in the current economic climate, won¡¯t you be forced, like it or not, to postpone certain projects, freeze hiring and focus on cost-cutting and budget-tightening until the situation eases?
Staying in the course despite short-term obstacles is something Total has always done, and our refusal to take a short-term view has led to major successes for us in the past. I¡¯m sticking with it.
Our 2009 capital expenditure budget is around $18 billion, in line with previous years. We also plan to recruit about 8,000 employees in 2009, having hired an average of 9,000 employees annually since 2004.
Our industry demands a long-term outlook, because our projects are capital-intensive, our fields and production facilities have life spans of several decades, and it takes years to develop top-tier oil specialists.
Keeping up our efforts now supports the economy and employment. It also helps promote future energy security by developing the production capacity that will be needed to meet demand.
But staying in the course doesn¡¯t mean that we can take our eye off the ball in terms of costs or upgrading our production base to safeguard its competitiveness. For example, Total¡¯s Refining and petrochemicals businesses in France are having to adapt to structural changes in demand. We will be investing nearly ¢æ1 billion to ensure their long-term viability, which will stimulate local employment. The plan will entail job losses around 2012-2013, but there will be no layoffs and we are committed to finding appropriate solutions for the employees concerned.

Given the crisis, was this really a good time to increase the dividend paid to your shareholders, instead of keeping the capital to invest, conduct R&D and create jobs?
We posted very good earnings in 2008. There is no reason why shareholders shouldn¡¯t receive their share. The stock market declines make it very clear that investing is not without risk; we need to retain our shareholders through a reasonable dividend payout policy. I would like to stress on this point that 100,000 current and former Total employees hold nearly 4% of our capital.
It¡¯s a mistake to assume that dividends hamper our growth. Both are the result of our strategy¡¯s success and the calculated risks that we have taken.
As we deal with the current crisis, our very solid balance sheet enables us to pursue our major projects, hire, and step up our R&D.

Most of the billions you invest go to oil and gas. For example, you are involved in oil sands production in Canada and in developing gas fields in the Arctic Sea, both of which alarm environmentalists. What can you say to reassure them?
All serious studies show that fossil fuels will continue to meet the bulk of energy demand for many years to come. We have a responsibility to maintain and increase our oil and gas production; it represents a not-insignificant 2% of global supply.
Among new resources to be developed, oil sands offer substantial potential; their development raises complex environmental problems that we pay careful attention to in our projects. In particular, we are participating in various R&D programs to cut the water use and greenhouse gas emissions associated with oil sands projects.
Environmental impact is also a major concern in the preliminary design we¡¯re conducting for the Shtokman project, in partnership with Russia¡¯s Gazprom, in the Barents Sea.

You are also interested in nuclear power. Shouldn¡¯t the current crisis act as a spur for you to shift your growth model toward greener projects?
We consider nuclear power an effective, available way to meet energy demand while curbing greenhouse gas emissions. Together with solar energy and biomass, it is one of the avenues we have chosen for eventually diversifying our energy solutions.
It is true that most of our capital spending is currently earmarked for oil and gas projects, refining and petrochemicals; they are the bedrock of our operations. But we are working intensively to secure the future.
We have budgeted $7.5 billion for research and development for the period 2008-2013. The production capacity of our subsidiary photovoltech, a photovoltaic cell maker, is expected to triple by 2012. In 2008, we acquired a stake in a U.S. startup that makes third-generation carbon film-based photovoltaic components. We¡¯re exploring second-generation biomass research. And we¡¯re innovating to offer our customers more energy-efficient, lower-emission, cleaner products and services. In partnership with a number of research laboratories and industry and university partners, we¡¯re working to develop the energy solutions of tomorrow.

The European Union managed to agree on an ambitious energy and climate change package in late 2008. Manufacturers put up some resistance, citing their problems staying competitive with rivals outside the EU What does Total think?
We¡¯re pleased and proud that the European Union was able to reach an agreement on the challenging issue of implementing targets to reduce greenhouse gas emissions by 20% and boost the share of renewable energies in the energy mix to 20%.
We have created action programs to address each of these goals. To reduce our greenhouse gas emissions, for example, we are working to gradually eliminate flaring of associated gas in our oil production operations and to increase the energy efficiency of our processes through sustained capital spending.
In 2009, we¡¯ll be starting up a commercial carbon capture and storage (CCS) pilot in Lacq, France. This is genuinely critical research: keep in mind that, according to the Intergovernmental panel on Climate Change (IpCC), CCS could eliminate 20 to 40% of global carbon emissions. So you can see that Total is fully involved in the fight against climate change. However, we have a responsibility to point out that the efforts of European Union industrial operators will not be enough if the transportation and housing sectors don¡¯t do their fair share in this fight too. Our line of more efficient products and services can help them with this.
Since the problem is planetary in scale, we have high hopes for the United Nations Climate Change Conference that will be held in Copenhagen in late 2009.

Plummeting oil and gas prices have put a number of producing countries in a tough situation. Hasn¡¯t the crisis exposed the way oil nations ? now coping with lower revenues, undiversified economies, and weak political and social cohesion ? have wasted their extractive industry revenues?
This is definitely a tough time for producing countries. They had based their budgets on an oil price of $80 to $100, and prices were only half that at the start of 2009. So they¡¯re being forced to cut back or draw on their reserves.

However, we shouldn¡¯t let this rough patch distract us from the very real progress that has been made. On financial transparency, for starters: a growing number of countries are implementing the Extractive Industries Transparency Initiative (EITI).
We consider it vital that our operations help drive local social development. That is our commitment and our best interest, and we have adjusted the way we define and assess our projects accordingly. Several large projects of strategic importance to local and regional economies are currently under way, such as our liquefied natural gas developments in Yemen, Nigeria and Angola.
Some 80% of the staff of Yemen LNG, scheduled to commission its facility this year, are Yemenis hired and trained by Total.
In Angola, we financed four new high schools that opened in early 2009. Creating jobs, supporting local small businesses and helping to expand education and health services are essential to building a mutually beneficial relationship with national governments and our host communities.
We are well aware that the tensions in some of our host countries overshadow our efforts. Take Nigeria, where the violence is getting worse, including against oil companies, which are experiencing employee kidnappings and attacks on their facilities. This large country, which is very important for Total, illustrates the challenges facing oil companies. Not just slow development given the high expectations created by oil wealth, but also the limits of the initiatives taken by companies, which cannot replace governments. We believe despite everything that our involvement in economic and social development projects helps ease tensions and make us more acceptable.

There were fatal accidents in your operations in early 2009, and you have also seen your fair share of industrial incidents recently, such as the spill from the Donges refinery that polluted the Loire estuary in 2008. How can this happen in a company with your experience?
The fatalities at our industrial facilities that you refer to are genuine tragedies. They affect us all. Our unstinting efforts in the area of safety are designed to prevent situations that can have such serious consequences.
Whenever there is an accident, we always try to understand what happened and learn from the experience so that it never happens again. And we do everything we can to repair and compensate any damage caused, as was the case for Donges.
In a company as big as Total, industrial safety is a never-ending task for which all of us must feel responsible and accountable at our own level. Our safety performance has improved significantly and still is, but we must constantly remain vigilant as part of a continuous improvement process.

---------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Supplementary Information 
Keeping up our efforts now supports the economy and employment. It also helps promote future energy security by developing the production capacity that will be needed to meet demand.

We consider it vital that our operations help drive local social development. That is our commitment and our best interest, and we have adjusted the way we define and assess our projects accordingly.

------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Total 2009

Message from Christophe de Margerie, Chief Executive Of?cer, Total

Development, rising demand for energy and climate change: what we do lies at the intersection of two of the greatest challenges facing the world today and tomorrow ? energy supply and environmental protection. Our responsibility as an energy producer is to manage these crucial and apparently con?icting challenges as best we can.

In practical terms, that means managing our energy use and offering our customers ways to do the same. More importantly, it also means inventing a new energy model that combines fossil fuels with low-carbon energy sources, to satisfy energy demand without interruption while at the same time protecting the environment.

But our responsibility doesn¡¯t end there. With nearly 97,000 employees, a presence in every region of the world and large-scale, value-creating projects, we rank among the top 20 enterprises worldwide.

Our activities, our size and our ?nancial strength understandably raise high expectations, in areas as various as employment, the environment, local development, safety, access to energy, ?nancial transparency, ethics and more.

We must acknowledge and take heed of these expectations. Doing so is a moral and civic duty and, more prosaically, an industrial and business one.

The energy environment is changing. Producing countries are increasingly reluctant to grant access to their reserves and competition among oil operators is intensifying as newcomers from major emerging economies ramp up their activities, among other developments.

That means we have to stand out from everyone else to continue enjoying access to resources, which is what¡¯s needed to generate suf?cient earnings to keep boosting our capital expenditure, especially on R&D. This is the only way for us to secure the future of energy and tackle climate change.

In other words, a key determinant will be our ability to listen, explain and take into account ? in short, to have transparent, constructive conversations with our stakeholders. That is, everyone directly and indirectly concerned by our projects, including employees, neighbors, customers, authorities, associations and shareholders.

The human factor is critical to this conversation. Through our personal conduct and people skills, we can lay the groundwork for balanced relationships, convince producing countries and their national oil companies that we add value, and in general demonstrate,  in every host country, that our projects stimulate economies while respecting people¡¯s rights and protecting the environment.

Yet this is no easy task: we must deal with a growing number of stakeholders and the sometimes-con?icting requirements that go with them.

At times we have to make tough decisions. I¡¯m thinking in particular of the changes at our Flandres re?nery in northern France. I¡¯m also thinking of our investments in oil sands projects in Canada, which we believe are vital for meeting energy demand over the next few decades.

However, assuming our responsibilities also means understanding why people criticize both our decisions and our projects. In the case of the Flandres re?nery, we have made a commitment not to lay anyone off. We have also pledged that, aside from the changes planned at Flandres, we will not shut down or sell off any French re?neries in the next ?ve years.

In Canada, we are bringing all our knowledge and expertise to bear to ?nd technologies that will shrink the environmental footprint of our oil sands projects. This is one of the reasons why we have opened a research center dedicated to the same issues in Calgary and are working closely with institutional, scienti?c and industrial partners.

We are aware that we still need to improve further. Listening, discussing and opening our minds to other ways of seeing and doing things are effective ways to move forward.

It is because we ?rmly believe they are that we have put together this report. By answering your questions about some of our chosen directions, we hope to show you what it is we do and where we mean to go.

But even more than that, we want to open up the dialogue, invite you to ask us questions and tell us about your expectations and what you don¡¯t understand. In short, to help us do better. Because the world is changing and we have to change with it, before it, in our interest and everyone else¡¯s.

We hope you enjoy our report.

----------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Supplementary Information 

¡°Our ability to understand the expectations we create and to meet them head on should help us.¡±

¡°Energy supply and environmental protection ? our responsibility as an energy producer is to manage these crucial and apparently con?icting challenges as best we can.¡±

¡°However, assuming our responsibilities also means understanding why people criticize both our decisions and our projects.¡±
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Total 2010

Message from Christophe de Margerie

In just under a year, the world experienced two major industrial accidents related to energy production, the Deepwater Horizon explosion in the Gulf of Mexico and the Fukushima nuclear power plant accident in Japan. In Fukushima¡¯s case, we still don¡¯t know the full extent of the consequences.

These tragic events serve to remind us that energy is a precious and critical resource, requiring complex, costly and not entirely risk-free industrial operations and facilities to produce.

Precious, because there are no current substitutes for oil in many applications. Critical, because growth is utterly dependent on energy.

We¡¯ve become quite attached to our standard of living and emerging economies ? quite legitimately ? aspire to match it.

Can the world strike a balance between a steady energy supply, growth, and the protection of lives and the environment? We believe it can. What¡¯s more, we¡¯re focusing all of our skills and expertise on providing practical, innovative answers to this question, dedicating substantial financial resources to it each year. That, in our eyes, is our primary responsibility.

However, juggling all these demands requires us to adapt. One way we do that is by looking for oil and gas in more complex environments? the ultra-deep offshore, for example ? or in less conventional forms, such as oil sands and shale gas, to name just two.

But that won¡¯t be enough to meet demand.
So we also have to develop alternative energies and help promote more efficient energy use and more energy conservation. In other words, offer our customers solutions that support more efficient, more frugal energy use, a goal that guides our innovation process.

The technical, business and environmental challenges we face are enormous. So are the social challenges. Indeed, the recent disasters heighten concerns about industry ? mainly in OECD countries ? and rekindle questions about its ability to manage its risks and responsibilities.

But society is no more ready to give up the comfort and conveniences energy brings than it is to accept structural increases in its price.

Hope often trumps concerns in emerging geographies. But society¡¯s expectations of energy operators are sky high, especially given that the people living in the countries richest in minerals and fossil fuels are frequently among the world¡¯s poorest.

Meeting all these challenges will take time and we will not be able to do it alone. Partnerships and dialogue are vital for helping us better pinpoint the expectations and fears we sometimes raise and find better ways to meet or allay them.

This ongoing effort to connect with the wider world will drive our continued improvement and help us to develop today the bold ideas and technologies that will foster innovative, socially acceptable solutions tomorrow.

We hope you find our report informative and enjoy reading it.

Christophe de Margerie,
Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, Total

----------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Supplementary Information 

Your 10 questions home in on aspects of our operations and decisions that surprise you, worry you or simply spur a reaction. We thank you for once again making the effort this year. You can be sure that your input is very important in helping us to move in the right direction and to clearly formulate what we can do to improve the way we use and share energy.

------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Total 2011


A CONVERSATION WITH CHRISTOPHE DE MARGERIE,
CHAIRMAN & CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER

THE RECENT INCIDENT ON YOUR ELGIN PLATFORM IN THE NORTH SEA HIGHLIGHTS THE RISKS ASSOCIATED WITH DEVELOPING COMPLEX RESERVOIRS. WHY
CONTINUE TO SEARCH FOR OIL AND GAS AT ANY COST?
The incident was a reminder that accidents are always possible in spite of our best efforts to prevent them. We must not, therefore, be- come overconfident and must strive for operational excellence. Constant vigilance is a must. It is also what enables us to respond efficiently and effectively when an incident occurs. Ensuring the safety of our teams and our facilities is our number one responsibility.
We also have a responsibility to sup- ply enough energy to meet the needs of as many people as possible. We are redoubling our efforts in this area too. At a time when global demand is rising and energy is increasingly costly and complex to produce, our task has never been more difficult. The amount of intellectual resources that go into each barrel we produce has also never been higher. The rea- son why we are developing deep and ultra-deep offshore fields and uncon- ventional oil and gas resources is not because of some sort of misplaced pride. It¡¯s because we believe that this is the only realistic solution to satisfying the world¡¯s energy needs over the long term, while also limit- ing the increase in energy prices.
And preparing for the future also means supporting the development of renewable energies, which we know will play an essential role in tomorrow¡¯s energy mix. At Total, we have chosen to focus on solar en- ergy and biomass. We are also preparing for the future by encour- aging innovation by our teams so that we can develop the smartest possible solutions while minimizing our impact on the environment.

ARE YOU DOING ENOUGH FOR SOCIETY, IN LIGHT OF TOTAL¡¯S MORE THAN HEALTHY FINANCIAL RESULTS?
Our financial results are what enable us to invest and therefore to fulfill our commitment to society. Produc- ing the energy the world needs already requires considerable investment, but doing it in an environmentally conscious way with a heightened focus on safety makes it even more costly. In 2011, Total spent more than ¢æ20 billion to meet this triple objective.
It is also thanks to our profits that we are able to support development in our host countries. We foster growth and employment all around us. Our employees, shareholders, suppliers and customers all benefit from our success, as do host country govern- ments, via the taxes we pay ? and we do pay a lot of tax, including in France. Other beneficiaries include
local small and medium-sized businesses, communities with little or no access to energy, and the people living near our facilities who need help with healthcare and edu- cation. Creating shared value is the key to our corporate social responsibility commitment. And to continue to fulfill that commitment over the long term, we need to be profitable.

BY GIVING STAKEHOLDERS AN OPPORTUNITY TO EXPRESS THEMSELVES IN YOUR SOCIETY AND ENVIRONMENT REPORT ONCE AGAIN THIS YEAR, AREN¡¯T YOU OPENING YOURSELVES UP TO CRITICISM?
The technical, financial, environmen- tal and social challenges we face today are enormous. Companies cannot overcome these challenges alone. It is only by listening to our stakeholders and maintaining con- structive dialogue with them that we can hope to develop appropriate solutions together.
Many people have questions about our businesses, operations and ac- tions. They are legitimate questions and we must answer them openly and transparently. Take the shale gas debate, for example. It is up to us to prove that safe, environmentally responsible exploration in France is possible.
Our initiatives to facilitate access to energy also require an educational, informative approach on our part. We must win over our detractors by explaining our vision, objectives and solutions in detail. I hope that this report will foster discussion and pro- vide more food for ongoing dialogue.

----------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Supplementary Information 

¡°Creating shared value is the key to our corporate social responsibility commitment. And to continue to fulfill that commitment over the long term, we need to be profitable.¡±

¡°Companies cannot overcome these challenges alone. It is only by listening to our stakeholders and maintaining constructive dialogue with them that we can hope to develop appropriate solutions together.¡±


