--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------BT Group PLC 2012

A year ago, being a ‘responsible and sustainable business leader’ joined our list of strategic priorities. What have we done since? What’s still to do?

You’ll find the answers here, in our second annual Better future report. You’ll also discover some of the ways we’re busily creating a better future through our people, products and services. And there are stories of how we’re helping people be better connected; growing while cutting our carbon footprint; contributing to better lives in our communities; and developing better ways of running our business.

Helping people be better connected

Fibre is our future. We think our ?2.5b investment in it is money well spent. Fibre broadband for the whole of the UK means people and businesses can share and work together much more easily.

There is evidence of strong demand for fibre broadband wherever we make it available. We’ve been laying the fibre faster than pretty much anyone else in the world. Which means businesses can make video calls, use conferencing and work at home - working smarter, and cutting CO2 emissions. And as fibre arrives in new neighbourhoods, more will do the same.

To get fibre broadband to people at the fastest possible pace, we’ve had to commit investment and develop and deploy new technologies. We’ve also recruited hundreds of former Armed Forces personnel to join a mobile team of engineers to help speed up the roll-out.

We’re co-investing with central and local government and the EU to reach areas that would otherwise not be economic. Putting that money to work will mean that in roughly five years’ time, 90 per cent of UK properties should be able to get fibre broadband. Go to Cornwall, the Scilly Isles or Northern Ireland and you’ll see that private-public cooperation is working really well. 

Getting fibre broadband to the other 10 per cent is even more tricky. We’re busy working out how we can use our technology in new ways to get faster there as well. So people and businesses across the UK can share in a more connected future.

Cutting our carbon footprint

We’re now growing our business but using less energy to do it. Last year, we used 3.3 per cent less energy than in 2011 (our target was two per cent) and that saved us ?21.9m. How did we do it? We installed smarter meters in 1,900 of our sites. And our 1,500 energy champions campaigned tirelessly in their own communities for people to get smarter about the way they use energy.

Since 1997, our carbon emissions intensity has dropped by 60 per cent. Back then, we promised 80 per cent by 2020. We still do. But it’s getting harder to push ahead with the wind and solar power plans which will help us hit that number, because we need more clarity from policy makers. We are in dialogue with government, seeking changes to things such as the way that companies report on their carbon emissions.

Better lives in our communities

We help the neighbourhoods we work in, too. Every day, there’s a new story about our people raising money for a charity somewhere in the world. On top of that, we still support UK charities like Children in Need and Sport Relief. We helped the latter raise more than ?50m this year ? through our technology, through 700 BT people taking donations over the phone on telethon night and though sponsoring three Sport Relief challenges.

All over the world, more than one-in-ten of us volunteered to help build better local communities last year. That’s over 50,000 days with a value of roughly ?15.9m.

But it’s not just our people improving the communities we work in. Our MyDonate platform is the UK’s only donation website with no service or commission charge. It only launched last year, but already more than 3,000 charities are benefitting.

We’re also still pushing for better lives for the people across our global supply chain, through fighting for better labour and environmental standards from suppliers, and progress against our UN Global Compact commitment.

Better ways of running our business

We want to be a healthy, inclusive and nourishing place to work. That’s why we never stop investing in our next generation ? from apprentice engineers to future leaders. And through our
Work Inspiration programme, more than 4,000 young people got to experience BT, and the world of work, for the first time. We hope a few will one day be BT people themselves.

What happens next?

Society is still facing some monumental challenges. To help meet them, we’ll be unveiling some long-term goals after the London 2012 Olympic and Paralympic Games, of which we are proud sponsors. These new goals will be bold, hopefully inspiring and certainly measurable. They’ll bind the best of what we do to some of the greatest social and environmental challenges of our time.

We need to think big ? which means ensuring we take our customers, partners and suppliers with us. However difficult that may be, it will be the only way to succeed for shareholders, keep our customers happy and motivate our people while sustaining the societies we all rely on.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------BT Group PLC 2013

Our networks, technology and expertise create the connections and possibilities that help businesses to grow, communities to flourish and people to get more from life. Our challenge is to help everyone reap the benefits, and to achieve this in a responsible and sustainable way.

In a year in which a 1,000-strong BT team guaranteed flawless communications for the London 2012 Games, there is much to be proud of. Nothing in our history has been a stronger test of our ability to manage and deliver large and complex projects. Across the company, our people came together, whether supporting our communications services or as ‘Games Makers’ volunteering at venues around the UK.

Through our Better Future programme we’re asking our people to help deliver solutions to some of the major issues that we are facing as society.

Globally, we use 1.5 times more resources than the planet can renew in a year, and our population is growing ? fast. With two billion extra mouths to feed by 2050, we must find ways to reduce consumption and live within the limits of the world’s resources. This means business has to change the way it thinks and acts ? using technology to achieve more with less, for example, and seeing waste as a resource, not a disposal problem.

Our Better Future programme aims to create an environment where our people can innovate and create the services needed to enable us to grow sustainably in the years to come. We have set out a clear vision and ambitious goals for each of our three focus areas: Connected Society, Net Good, and Improving Lives.

Connected Society

By improving access to markets, information, education and employment, and by enabling collaboration and co-operation on a massive scale, internet-powered communication services can make change possible. We are playing a vital role in this transformation by improving the reach and quality of our digital network. In our UK market, more than nine out of ten people will have access to high-speed broadband products and services by 2020 at the latest.

Net Good

Proud as we are of our own record, doing less environmental damage is no longer enough. We are moving beyond simply making our own business more resource-efficient to using our products and services to help customers do the same. As a start, we aim to help customers avoid carbon emissions equivalent to at least three times the end-to-end carbon impact of our business by 2020.

Improving Lives

We are uniquely positioned to enable charities to raise funds and promote their work ? and in some cases have been doing so for more than 25 years. Our technology makes possible telethons that raise millions and disaster recovery efforts that save lives. These are the organisations that are making a difference day in, day out to people’s lives around the world. By 2020, we will ensure our technology and skills have helped generate more than ?1bn for good causes.

Highlights in the year:
- group-wide carbon intensity has reduced by 77 per cent since 1996/97. In the UK, we agreed with energy supplier npower to source 100 per cent of our electricity from renewable sources. This means that we have reduced our absolute carbon emissions by 80 percent from 1996/97, three years ahead of target
- our business has also supported social and economic progress. More than 15 million UK properties now have fibre-based broadband access thanks to our ?2.5bn investment programme 
- our MyDonate services helped generate ?25m in donations for our charity partners
- BT people have spent more than 43,600 volunteering days in the community this year, worth around ?13m.

We are extremely mindful that not everything technology is used for is good for society. You will see that from much of what we say in our report that it’s our people and values that underpin our Better Future vision. We work with suppliers to raise labour standards and prevent the raw materials in our products from funding conflict. And even in times of change and economic uncertainty, we aim to make BT a healthy, inspiring place to work, and to uphold external commitments such as the UN Global Compact.
There are serious challenges facing the world and we must step up our efforts to help address them. No one individual, organisation or country can become sustainable alone, but through partnership with customers, industry peers, charity partners and many others, we feel confident we can achieve our goals and be a positive influence on the world. Our Better Future programme and the passion and creativity of our people are keeping us on course.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------BT Group PLC 2014

We use the power of communications to make a better world 

Communications are transforming just about every aspect of our lives ? how we work, how we shop and how we think. They are helping to create new businesses and business models; reshaping the way governments operate; bringing new ways of providing healthcare and education and also enabling social mobility - BT is right at the heart of this. Our purpose is to use the power of communications to make a better world. 

These days, life and work are built around connectivity. Through us, millions of individuals connect to friends and family and have a wealth of information and entertainment at their fingertips. From small local businesses right through to large multinationals, we help companies to work smarter and compete in global markets. BT also enables essential public services to be delivered and underpins the growth of our national and regional economies. 

By bringing together our networks, our technology and the hard work and expertise of our people, we develop services that generate value for our shareholders, for our customers and society. We believe that people want to do business with a company that supports their ability to grow and is a positive force in the communities where it operates. That’s why we’re using our networks and technology to help raise ?1 billion for good causes by 2020. It’s why we created The Supporters Club, BT’s charity partnership dedicated to using the power of sport to improve lives. It’s why we’re committed to digital inclusion, because we recognise getting online can make a huge difference to people’s life opportunities. 

And it’s also why we launched The Right Click: Internet Safety Matters in partnership with UNICEF ? a three-year programme that will provide practical advice about online child safety to around 35,000 teachers, parents and children in the UK. 

Greenhouse gas emissions are another major challenge for society and that’s why, through our Net Good programme, not only have we committed to reduce our own impact, we’re also committing to use our products and services to help customers reduce their emissions by at least three times the end-to-end carbon impact of our business. 

Our people also believe in using the power of communications to make a better world. During the winter floods in the UK, our engineers came in over the Christmas period to help reconnect customers as quickly as possible - because they felt it was the right thing to do. BT volunteers were there after the typhoon in the Philippines, setting up emergency networks so the aid agencies could coordinate efforts and the country could start to get back on its feet. And it’s reflected in the attitude our people bring to work, whether that’s during the course of their day job or when volunteering their time to good causes like answering calls during telethons for Children in Need and Comic Relief. 

We believe that businesses that flourish are the ones with a purpose that’s more than simply making money. They’re businesses that see no compromise between financial results and social returns. That’s why we remain committed to demonstrating our contribution to society as a signatory of the UN Global Compact. We are excited about the future. Not just about what technology can do, but what everyone can do with it. Not just about what we do as a business, but how we do it. And not just about having a purpose, but being purposeful in everything we do. We are determined to be right at the heart of that future.
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Deutsche Telekom 2004

Dear Readers,

The central theme of this year’s Deutsche Telekom Human Resources and Sustainability Report is “Living sustainability ? in every respect”. This theme is one of the key inspirational forces behind all of Deutsche Telekom’s dealings and actions. We are convinced that our commitment  to sustainability directly benefits the environment,  the economy and society as a whole. We also feel that a proactive stance in this area greatly strengthens our competitive positioning, motivates our employees and helps to raise general standards in the company.

A company that lives the value of sustainability is sending out an important message. By mapping out the long-term roadmap of its strategies, it is laying the foundation for the future viability of its business and social activities. Deutsche Telekom is firmly established as a key driving force for innovation in the telecommunications industry. Again and again, our products and services shape the evolution of telecom applications and solutions. To ensure we maintain our lead in this area, we turn to our employees. No one is more aware than Deutsche Telekom that we rely on our employees to turn innovative ideas into innovative products and business processes. Which is why we actively foster a spirit of innovation among our employees. For us, innovativeness and sustainability are inextricably linked.

All of our business activities are centered around our customers’ needs. We deliver value to our customers by offering IT and telecommunications  products and services that make their lives easier and leave them better positioned to capitalize on change. Which is why, for example, we are driving broad- band communications. With T-DSL, we have brought the benefits of broadband access to a massive customer base, opening up a whole new world of telecom opportunities at work and in the home. Our services and solutions are designed to help our customers improve their competitiveness and ensure their long-term success. Residential customers turn to us to explore new ways of using the Internet and reap the benefits of mobile communications.

Our telecom services support sustainable development in various areas of society. We promote new working models that allow employees to better harmonize their professional lives with their family commitments. In addition, we look at ways of enhancing education through the latest information and communication technologies. Telecommunications can be an important enabler for the elderly, the sick and the disabled, empowering them to participate more fully in society. Our customized solutions streamline operations among government bodies, at the same time bringing municipal services closer to the citizen. Videoconferencing  not only saves costs, it also reduces the environmental burden of business travel.

Our innovative spirit also extends to our human resources strategy. We have set ground-breaking standards with our Employment Alliance. By introducing a shorter working week with partial wage compensation, we have created around 9,800 new job opportunities. This means we can share the work between more employees, at the same time cutting HR costs. This initiative was a key milestone in ensuring the Group’s sustainability and long-term competitiveness.

Always looking to the future, we are determined to give ourselves as much headroom as possible to ensure we are ideally positioned to master change and capitalize on new market opportunities. This includes continuing to reduce our debt and realigning the Group to focus on strategic growth fields, namely broadband/fixed  network, mobile communications and business customers, which is planned for 2005.

The telecommunications industry offers vast possibilities and growth potential both now and in the future. Our vision is as follows: “As the leading services company in the telecommunications and information technology industry, we network society for a better future. With top quality, efficiency and in- novation, to the benefit of our customers. In every respect.” We are striving for sustainable success ? for our customers, our society, the environment ? and for our Group and its people.

Kai-Uwe Ricke                                                                 
Chairman of the Board of Management      
          
Dr. Heinz Klinkhammer
Board Member Responsible for Human Resources

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Deutsche Telekom 2005

Dear readers,

Those who wish to make the best use of their opportunities can't afford to remain passive and see what the future brings. They must act. That's why at Deutsche Telekom we're helping to shape the future.

In our entrepreneurial and social actions, we never lose sight of the future. The telecommunications sector is among the most dynamic of all sectors, and it is virtually unparalleled in influencing trends and developments in all areas of social and economic life. The Internet, the best example of such influence, has ushered in completely new forms of communication and profoundly changed a wide array of processes ? in the home and in the workplace, in education and health care, in public administration and finance. As one of the sector's innovation leaders, we know we have a special responsibility not only for our own company, but also for our society as a whole ? and we act accordingly. The future of telecommunications isn't just going to happen ? we're helping to shape it.

In applying our company strategy, we strive for innovation, quality and efficiency. The standard by which we measure our efforts is the judgment of our customers. We have further optimized our Group structure by setting up the three strategic business areas Broadband / Fixed Network, Mobile Communications and Business Customers, and we have been systematically orienting it to defined customer segments and growth markets. This realignment has strengthened our long-term competitiveness in the highly competitive telecommunications market. Our customers' real communications needs, in both fixed-network and mobile communications, remain the key basis for all of our innovation.

Our quality satisfies us only when it satisfies our customers. Rigorous customer orientation makes our entrepreneurial activities highly sustainable, while also providing the decisive basis for market success.

As a leading telecommunications company, we take a high-profile role in our society. We are clearly focused on our customers' needs, in order to be able to offer them the best possible services. As a major employer, and as a partner in many projects for the benefit of our society, we remain closely focused on people. A good corporate citizen, Deutsche Telekom also contributes actively to the positive development of our society and environment. We are committed  to the principles  of sustain- ability, and we see this commitment as central to our efforts to enhance our Group's competitive- ness and to train and motivate our workforce. This commitment is also the key to our involvement
in many different segments of our society. Sustainability isn't just going to happen either ? we're helping to shape it.

Global telecommunications networks are key channels for globalization. These channels take our sustainability commitment far beyond the boundaries of our home market. We practice and promote sustainability in all countries in which we are active through subsidiaries and affiliates. In addition, we support a large number of national and international initiatives and projects intended to promote sustainable economic action. For us, the Global Compact's ten principles are a binding framework of values, a framework that defines our management decisions.

The men and women who work for Deutsche Telekom are the key to our sustainability policy. They live by the principles of sustainability every day. And they do so not only within our Group, in their contacts with customers and colleagues ? they do so outside the Group as well, taking active roles in an enor- mous number of different public and social projects and positions. We take great pride in the ways our employees act as "sustainability ambassadors" throughout our society and fill the values we have established within the company with life. We express our thanks and our personal respect to all those who are actively committed to helping others, to enhancing our social coexistence and to protecting our environment. They all enrich our society and are helping to give us a brighter future.


Kai-Uwe Ricke                                                                 Dr. Heinz Klinkhammer
Chairman of the Board of Management                Board Member Responsible for Human Resources

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Deutsche Telekom 2006

Dear Readers,

"Hello Future" - that is the motto of Deutsche Telekom's current image campaign. The catchy slogan is our way of showing what drives our Company in the face of increasingly fierce competition, on both the national and the global level. We help to shape the future actively and sustainably, to the benefit of our customers, our employees, our shareholders and our partners ? in short, for the good of society as a whole.

Deutsche Telekom is one of the world's leading telecommunications companies. We are aware that the technological and corporate decisions that we make will have far-reaching effects. Telecommunications is a key technology for practically every industry. In many segments of society, the use of IT and telecommunications is bringing about profound changes. With this in mind, we accept responsibility for the world of today and tomorrow and are working systematically at smoothing the way toward this new tomorrow. It is necessary ? particularly during difficult times, when the Deutsche Telekom Group is faced with ever tougher challenges ? to be especially responsible, deliberate, credible and transparent in all of our actions, so as to retain the confidence of customers and investors.

Naturally, our focus is trained on the products and solutions that we implement for our customers. Whether this means broadband connections for a multimedia Internet experience, high-performance mobile communications networks for total freedom of communication on the go, or sophisticated turnkey IT and telecommunications solutions for our corporate customers ? "We network society for a better future." Deutsche Telekom is clearly committed to its social mission. From it we derive our pledge and our obligation: to fulfill our responsibility towards the world in which our Group is active.

This responsibility extends to our role as employer. Deutsche Telekom employs more than 240,000 employees in 65 countries, 170,000 of whom are in Germany. The international telecommunications  industry is currently under- going a far-reaching process of transformation, from a technology-centered business to one oriented towards service and towards the customer. We are reacting to the profound changes in economic structures and business models that result with a comprehensive workforce restructuring and a broad range of staff development measures. Our aim is to shape the skills of our employees in an ongoing process in such a way that the future of our company is secure even in an intensely competitive market. We also have another task before us: that of aligning our Group's organizational structures with the changing needs of our customers and the market, thereby redefining the focus of our business activities. The merger of T-Com and T-Online, for example, has led us to combine forces in the important market of broadband technology. We at Deutsche Telekom are developing a process of thoroughgoing change ? a process that should help us become the leading service provider in our industry.

In our work, we are involved in social and economic change for the sake of a better future ? and we are driving Deutsche Telekom's transformation into a customer-centered Group that offers ICT services of the highest caliber. "Leading change" is thus the logical title of our Company's 2006 Human Resources and Sustainability Report.

Through the structure and content of this report, we demonstrate that even during the transformation phase that our market is currently undergoing, we will continue to fill our role as one of innovation leader. Our innovative products  and services impress our customers.  Just as our innovative instruments and measures drive change at Deutsche Telekom.

The changes in the telecommunications industry pose huge challenges for us. It is our firm conviction that successful change can only be brought about if it is in line with tried-and-true constants. The corporate vision and values of our Group ? T-Spirit ? form the basis of our action. To translate this model into concrete terms, we have adopted a Code of Conduct that acts as a binding framework of values for personal and corporate involvement. This
Code of Conduct signals our commitment to sustainability, fairness and respect in all of our actions. For the sake of our customers, shareholders, business partners and employees, we draw both on the Code of Conduct and on our innovative spirit and creativity to shape the development of the information and knowledge society.

Another important point of departure for change in our international Group is a clear commitment to sustainable corporate development. Throughout the Deutsche Telekom Group, we put the principles of sustainability into daily action. These principles shape our work within Deutsche Telekom, for example by using resources with care or developing our staff. And these principles extend to our performance in the marketplace and to our social engagement.

Companies are not just participants in the economic life of the market, they are part of society. It is this conviction that drives Deutsche Telekom's commitment to the environment and to fulfilling our social responsibility. We owe it to those who follow us.

Kai-Uwe Ricke                                                                             Dr. Heinz Klinkhammer
Chairman of the Board of Management                          Board Member Responsible for Human Resources

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Deutsche Telekom 2007
CSR 보고서 없음.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Deutsche Telekom 2008

Dear Readers, 

*{Deutsche Telekom’s core business, providing, society, imaginable services, amenities required, connected life, work}
*{no doubt, question, doing, job, responsible manner}
*{success, depends, trust, confidence, customers, depends, responsibility, show, conduct, society}

*{greatest challenges, face, combating, severe climate change, providing, equal opportunities, participate, IT world, enhanced services, connected life, work}
*{achieve, intend, offer, new concepts, specific solutions, focused, corporate responsibility activities, purpose}

*{Digitization of business processes, replacing, traveling, modern communication media, essentials, improved energy efficiency, global economy}
*{latest Smart 2020 report, possible, reduce, CO2 worldwide, next decade, quantity higher, USA’
S current CO2 emissions, employing, information, communications technologies, targeted manner}
*{intend, setting, example}

*{striving, possible, irrespective, origin, level of education, share, IT world}
*{owing, demographics, country, Germany, dependent, potential, senior citizens, people, grown up, amenities, internet, mobile communications}
*{concerned, underprivileged, children, youth, expose, new technologies, learn, use, best networks of high-speed Internet connections worldwide}
*{Future developments, Internet, greater challenges, network, line capacities}
*{private sector, not be able, finance, investment required, overcome, challenges}
*{social duty, preventing, regional digital, divide, long-term, new political, regulatory solutions, found}

*{challenge, tackled, improving, quality of working, living, modern society, services}
*{calls, developing, implementing, network, technologies, openly facing, consequences, example, constant virtual presence, working life}

*{proud, Deutsche Telekom’s contributions, fields of sustainability, corporate responsibility, receive, international acclaim, committed, principles, United Nations Global Compacts}

*{best, get, impression, commitment, services, field of corporate responsibility}
*{grateful, receive, views, work}
*{value, opinion, wish, happy reading, hoping, wealth of information, inspired}

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Deutsche Telekom 2009

Dear Readers,

“We take responsibility.” ? the motto of this year’s report takes on new meaning in the current crisis. We have already pledged our commitment to sustainable development and plan to help shape the future of our society on this basis.

One of the central issues for us here is education. Our modern knowledge society is not conceivable without a top-class educational  system. Over the years, we have therefore provided support for schools and other educational institutions, above all through the Deutsche Telekom Foundation. We are giving increased backing to children and young people from difficult economic and social backgrounds. One example is our “Yes, I can!” initiative, which was launched in April 2009 and supports projects that help children and young people develop their talents so that they have greater chances of participating in the community and the world of work.

In addition to this, our products and services help us fulfill our responsibility towards society. This applies to climate protection as well as to designing connected life and work in a digital world. It is an approach that enables us to open up key future markets, with “Green ICT” as one example.

Our efforts are acknowledged  by independent organizations. Numerous analysts see us in a top position in the socially responsible investment  (SRI) rankings.  oekom, for example, a well-known  rating agency, classed us as a “prime  invest” in its March 2009 rating.

This is the path we will continue to tread. For this reason, we commit our employees at all Group levels to the cause. Increasingly, we are incorporating sustainability in our day-to-day work all over the globe.

Any company that, like Deutsche Telekom, intends to take responsibility must know what society expects of it and promote an open dialog. This will include transparent reporting, which ? like this document ? complies with the high standards of the Global Reporting Initiative and the Global Compact, and also stands up to stringent inspection by external auditors.

We invite you to take a look at our social commitment in our 2009 CR Report. It is then completely up to you to judge the success of our efforts.

I hope you enjoy an exciting read. Bonn, June 2009
Sincerely,

Ren? Obermann
Chairman of the Board of Management
Deutsche Telekom AG

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Deutsche Telekom 2010

10 questions.
10 answers.

Telekom has declared sustainability as a top priority. In April 2010, Ren? Obermann became the first CEO of a DAX company to sign the Change-maker Manifesto of Utopia, the Internet platform for strategic consumption. With this manifesto, we are committing our company to comprehensive sustainability targets. Below is an excerpt from the live chat with the members of Utopia, included here as a foreword.

1. Hello Mr. Obermann. Do you personally believe that man-made climate change can still be contained or stopped?
“Yes, more and more people understand how important it is and, in business, companies will be in a better position in the long term if they follow principles of sustainability. In any case, we have no choice, we just have to take an optimistic approach and do something.”

2. Why does Deutsche Telekom not use any green electricity from one of the four purely green electricity providers?
“It’s a complex issue. We don’t have one single electricity provider. The mix for Germany includes about 17 percent green electricity, which mainly comes from existing hydroelectric power plants. Looking ahead, we want to increase the proportion of green electricity. So we are watching technological developments such as fuel cells, combined heat and power plants and geothermal energy. However, we have been offsetting all energy emissions in Germany for some time now with RECS certificates.”

3. What is your stance on the topical issue of Green IT?
“That’s our issue! We are building and offering solutions for our customers: cloud computing (with dynamic resource allocation and better utilization of computer capacities), managed document services, smart metering, etc. It’s really a broad field and highly strategic for us.”

4. How can the massive expansion of your mobile communications networks and WLAN hotspots be reconciled with sustainability?
“Safety and environmental sustainability have top priority for us. We rely on the judgments of experts from recognized bodies (e.g., WHO). The same applies for WLAN. All our products and our mobile communications networks comply with limits and safety standards. We also support research to gain further clarity in this area.”

5. How do you reconcile shareholder value with sustainability?
“Very well, in the long term. Because society and customers demand it. And I believe they honor it too, at least increasingly so.”

6. Sustainability as a top priority ? does that mean the achievement of specific sustainability targets is anchored in management remuneration? “Sustainability must not be for sale. Managers who want a career in our company have to be committed to sustainable corporate governance without the promise of a special reward. Sustainability targets are ultimately measured, for example, in the SRI rating or in carbon reductions.”

7. How do you ensure sustainability is also anchored in the minds of employees?
“Through values that everyone must be aware of, through interactive tools, such as e-learning, through taking action, like carbon-offsetting business trips, through targeted driver training to reduce emissions, through converting our vehicle fleets (approximately 30,000 in Germany alone) to lower-emissions vehicles (long-term objective110 g per kilometer on average), and through programs, such as corporate volunteering.”

8. Is your participation  just part of an image campaign, or is it genuine? I suspect the former, considering the fact that the work climate and working conditions are constantly deteriorating. Radical measures against your own workforce and sustain- ability ? do they go together?
“Your representation doesn’t match my view of our company climate. Even if you talk to critical people, from Ver.di or the works council for example, you get a very differentiated picture. We act in a highly socially responsible way and offer better working conditions than many other companies. And we train more than 10,000 young people, take on new employees, support social projects, and invest in education, including for those who are disadvantaged.”

9. What is your personal, private attitude to sustainability?
“I’m careful to be energy efficient in using appliances, I don’t always take the car, and the car that I do drive isn’t that big these days, so I’m careful about fuel consumption and carbon emissions. I’m also involved in social activities, for example in youth work.”

10. Do you ever lose your patience because it seems to take so long to make real changes in a big company like Telekom?
“Yes, but then I go and get some fresh air and remind myself about all the good things our company has to offer, especially the great people who work for us.”

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Deutsche Telekom 2011

Foreword by the Chairman of the Board of Management

Ren? Obermann, Chairman of the Board of Management, Bonn, Germany.

Dear Readers,

Many decisions in the worlds of politics and business have to be made quickly, and they are aimed at the near future. But we should never lose sight of long-range challenges?such as the transition to renewable sources of energy, as approved by the German government. We still have a long way to go before we meet this goal. Not all of the requirements for a successful turnaround are in place?far from it, in fact, although many German companies are ready with good solutions.

Deutsche Telekom offers an intelligent control system for advanced electrical grids. It connects consumers and producers so that electricity producers can deliver power exactly when and where it is needed. Smart electricity meters help link together large numbers of decentralized energy producers to create a central, virtual power plant. This means it is economically viable for electricity producers to shift to decentralized production and renewable energy sources.

We also need to tackle challenges in society. Let's take demographic change as an example. Major firms like Deutsche Telekom need to have the right mix of employees: proven colleagues with experience and younger workers who move freely and comfortably in the digital world. But to us as a business, demographic change also means developing new products and solutions for the healthcare segment and getting them ready for the market. We are ramping up our commitment to helping patients live independently as long as possible?thanks in part to innovative new Telekom products.

The way we live and work is undergoing huge changes due to increasing networking. For companies, mobile working can increase cost-effectiveness, even as employees enjoy enhanced quality of life. In view of this increasing networking, however, we want to make sure that as many people as possible benefit from it. For that reason, we will continue to promote media skills, the use of filters to protect children and young people surfing on  the Internet, and Internet seminars for seniors and immigrants.

Ever since the Global Compact    was founded in 2000, we have championed the principles laid out in this United Nations initiative, in areas including human rights, climate protection, and combating corruption. Since January
2011, we have been the only German company active in the LEAD Steering Committee of the UN Global Compact.

Our CR Report provides information on the progress of our corporate commitment and involvement. Our new application "We care" also provides a good overview of our corporate responsibility activities. In a very playful, intuitive way, the application showcases the full breadth of our commitment and involvement.

We hope you enjoy reading it! Bonn, May 2012
Sincerely,

Ren? Obermann
Chairman of the Board of Management of Deutsche Telekom AG


---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------Deutsche Telekom 2012

Dear Readers,

Deutsche Telekom recognizes its responsibility for the environment and society. That is why we have been reporting on our corporate responsibility activities for years now in a comprehensive, transparent format. We have been doing this voluntarily and not as the result of legal reporting requirements, such as the legislation currently being prepared by the EU .

As this report impressively illustrates, we assume responsibility in many areas. I would like to discuss two of these areas in more detail because of their considerable importance for society and for us as a company:
climate protection and access to high-speed networks. 

Information and communications technology (ICT) is not necessarily the first thing that comes to mind when you think about climate protection. However, digital life and work contribute significantly to creating a low-carbon society. The SMART er2020 study, which was presented in Doha in 2012 and in which Telekom played a key role, shows that ICT has the potential to reduce CO2 emissions worldwide by 16.5 percent. That is around ten times the total amount of greenhouse gas emissions in Germany.

We develop innovative applications and technologies to tap this potential, helping our customers reduce their carbon footprint. Video conferencing, to name just one small example, can replace many of our customers‘ business trips. Smart energy management helps our customers reduce their electricity consumption. 

We are pursuing our own ambitious climate protection goals as well. We are switching our networks over to the more energy-efficient Internet Protocol, initiating a generational shift in mobile communications technology and improving the energy efficiency of our data centers. We are also pointing the way when it comes to mobility with our company fleet. The average CO2 emissions produced by all new Telekom cars in Germany have been reduced from 125 g/km in 2011 to 120 g/km. That means that we have already achieved the levels that the European Union has set for 2015 as part of its climate protection goals.

Our involvement in climate protection is not an isolated effort but rather a central component of a comprehensive strategy. With this strategy, we resolutely put the principles of the United Nations‘ Global Compact into practice. We made an official commitment to these principles in 2000, the year the Global Compact was introduced. Our efforts are focused on those areas where we feel we can contribute the most to the sustainable development of our society. These include climate protection as well as our action areas ?Connected life and work ? and ?Connecting the unconnected.“

To achieve progress in these areas we need to provide high-speed network access to as many people as possible with innovative, energy efficient technologies for more sustainable products and services. To do this, we continue to increase our investment in the expansion of state-of-the-art broadband networks, even when the market trend points the other way. Our investment over the next three years will total at
almost EUR 30 billion. 

With our new vision ?Deutsche Telekom ? My first choice for connected life and work,“ we plan to put customer experience in the limelight even more than before. Not only do we want to provide our customers with transparent information, we also want to engage in dialog with them. We listen. And not only when talking about new devices and technologies but also, and more importantly, when it comes to issues that affect our communities.

But find out for yourself. Form your own opinions about our efforts to promote climate protection, sustainable ways of living and working, online safety and social cohesion.

I hope you will find this report both informative and inspiring.

---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------Deutsche Telekom 2013

Dear Reader, 

The information and knowledge society is becoming increasingly dynamic. The amount of data and knowledge available online is growing exponentially and digital applications are enriching our every day lives. This calls for fast broadband networks. 

That is why we as a telecommunications company bear considerable social responsibility. We create the infrastructure that helps permanently simplify life and improve its quality. We lay the foundation for innovation and participation in society by investing extensively in network expansion ? more than EUR 3 billion in Germany alone in 2013. Our many innovations in the area of health are only a few examples. With our tele-medical solutions, we make it possible for people who are ill and in need of care to be monitored remotely so that they can continue to live independently in their familiar surroundings. 

But Telekom is more than just an infrastructure provider. Responsible conduct is part of our DNA. This CR report includes a wealth of examples of how and in what areas Telekom pursues corporate social responsibility as well as the progress we have made over the past year in different areas. 

Data privacy is at the top of our list. Data security criteria are included in our product development processes right from the start. In 2013, for example, we considerably improved the anti-eavesdropping security of mobile communications by implementing the A5/3 encryption standard throughout Germany. 

And we also work to protect the climate. By approving a Group-wide climate protection target in 2013, we made it possible to measure our progress in reducing C02 emissions at an international level. We are planning to reduce our CO2 emissions by the year 2020 by 20 percent compared to 2008. Social topics are high on our list as well. With our Social Charter, which we revised in 2013, we have sharpened our focus on topics such as how well our global suppliers respect human rights issues. We also began including an CR clause in all of our supplier contacts in June 2013. The clause describes the ethical, social, ecological and anti-corruption standards that we expect from our partners. 

It is with conviction that I continue to pursue the clear commitment made by my predecessors to run the company responsibly and to comply with the principles set forth in the Global Compact of the United Nations. I am particularly interested in making it even more clear how important sustainability and social responsibility are to the value of our company. The ongoing integration of non-financial key performance indicators into our annual report is an effective step in this direction. 


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Telecom Italia 2001
CHAIRMAN’S LETTER

Growth in the world economy, globalization, the new information and communication technologies and 
liberalization of monopolized production industries  have reasserted market focus as the driving 
force for development and have sparked  the demand  for socially responsible businesses, capable of 
fostering an
economic  trend,  in which  equality, balance and respect for the environment figure more highly.

Business management policies and strategies  currently reflect  two  conflicting models.
One sees social responsibility extending no further than  its talent to generate profit, with focus 
primarily on shareholders  and financiers.  Business performance is accordingly measured based on 
ability to create value.
The other  defines social responsibility in broader terms, endeavouring to achieve a network of 
relationships that  connect the business to a variety  of stakeholders. Investment in human  
capital  and research and development are considered strategic for policies to improve the quality 
of products,  in order  to increase business competitivity.

Along  with many other  global corporations, the principal voluntary organizations and the 
International Confederation of Free Trade Unions, the Telecom Italia  Group has supported the nine 
principles  set by the Global Compact proposed  by the United Nations Secretary- General, Kofi  
Annan,  regarding human rights,  labor  standards and
environmental protection.

The Telecom Italia  Group has always invested  in social and environmental values; for five years 
it has published a rigorous, in-depth report, refining information contained in it and selecting 
from  it the most reliable indicators to supplement its annual  report.

It stands alongside  other  big businesses in Italy and Europe which  have already adopted this 
best practice and serves as
an example  for others wishing to profitably embark  on this course.

As a leading industry it proposes sustainability as a business value, a tool for programming, 
management and control.


Chairman
Marco Tronchetti Provera

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Telecom Italia 2002
CHAIRMAN’S LETTER

The current international  scenario and the
direct effects it is having on social and economic trends place greater focus on the role that 
business, and especially large companies, can play in shaping societal development and in directing 
change in terms of framework and targets toward a system of values.

Companies which are conscious of their evolving role see themselves at the center of a network of 
relationships with a variety of stakeholders who can have a real influence
on their reputation and competitivity. Concern for values consequently becomes an integral part of 
company processes and as such can be measured, managed and monitored.

The Telecom Italia Group has performed  a leading role in introducing the Sustainability Report in 
Italy as a means of integrated performance reporting and transparent communication of corporate 
strategies.

The course we have followed, from our 1997 social report to our 2002 integrated report, has been 
coherent and compliant with a growing and more qualified commitment to promote  Sustainability  as 
a business value.

In 2002, the Group governance structure was further enhanced through adopting practices and 
principles of conduct, formally expressed in codes and procedures. The corporate governance system 
was implemented with the Code of Ethics, which is ideally placed upstream of the whole system and 
which constitutes, in terms of
general policy, the set of principles which
guides the Group’s activities in relationships with our stakeholders for an ethical business 
conduct.

Corporate strategy will be integrated with the Strategic Sustainability Plan, which addresses areas 
for improvement in relationships with stakeholders and outlines projects and targets in accordance 
with appropriate lines of action, thus setting up a complete process for governance of 
sustainability within the Group.

Marco Tronchetti Provera
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Telecom Italia 2003
LETTER OF THE CHAIRMAN

To the Shareholders,
For Telecom Italia, 2003 was a decisive turning
point in the building of structures that would be
both stronger and more appropriate to meet the
ambitions and challenges facing a large group
committed to an industrial project abounding
with development potential. 
What we achieved in 2003 involved radical
restructuring and the re-launching of the industrial
side of the Group. Over the last two years, we have
succeeded in cutting costs by more than euro 2.2
billion, equivalent to 86% of the target set for the
end of 2004. Non-strategic operations were sold
for euro 10 billion. The values of investments in
the corporate portfolio were lowered by more than
euro 12 billion, to bring them in line with fair
value. Net financial indebtedness was reduced by
euro 10 billion. At the same time, more than euro
10 billion was distributed to shareholders between
dividends and tender offers. It is therefore
legitimate that we should feel proud of having
fulfilled the commitments that we made to the
market when we took over the responsibility of
managing the Group.
One of these commitments was to streamline the
corporate structure. In fact, integration of Olivetti
with Telecom Italia last summer resulted in a
company that is more competitive, more flexible
in financial terms, and better oriented to create
value for its shareholders.
While we were working to rid ourselves of the
heavy burden that had accumulated in past years,
we did not neglect to build solid, competitive
foundations for the future. We continued to invest
almost euro 5 billion a year, mainly in the
technological innovation of our networks,
systems, products and services. We focused our
attention even more on marketing and on the
structures dedicated to serving our clientele. We
never failed to continue to improve the level of
professional expertise of our human resources.
Since we were well aware that there could be no
reliable, long-lasting growth without integrity, a good reputation and trust, we took action to make
our administrative decisions even more
transparent, to ensure that the interests of all our
shareholders would be respected, and to establish
a continuous, open dialogue with the financial
community. With respect to corporate governance,
we want to be at the top not only nationally but
also internationally, so that every level of corporate
operations will adopt the kind of conduct that will
guarantee the utmost honesty and transparency. It
is a continuous process: another step forward was
the decision, starting with the Board of Directors
taking office in 2004, that the board should have a
majority of independent directors of the highest
possible standing from both a personal and
professional standpoint.
In more general terms, we have stepped up our
commitment to implement policies of corporate
responsibility that aim to satisfy all the bearers of
legitimate interest ? customers, employees,
suppliers, the public at large, future generations ?
by supporting the principles of the Global
Compact, the key benchmark at world level
launched in 2000 by the U.N.O. to promote
respect for human rights and labor standards and
the safeguarding of the environment. By making
the Sustainability Program an integral part of the
Industrial Plan, we have planned the measures
needed to assure the ethical excellence of the
whole Group.
The positive economic and financial results of
2003 fit into this general framework. The results
exceed the set targets in a way that places the
Telecom Italia Group in a prime position within
the international telecommunications scenario.
The results achieved are even more impressive
when we consider that 85% of the results was
generated on the Italian market, where
deregulation has been so far-reaching and so
rigorous and where, as a result, competition in
terms of prices and services has been even fiercer
than in other European countries. 
The main business segments generated growth.
For the first time in four years, revenues from wireline telephone services increased as a result
of effective strategies to promote customer
loyalty, the ever-more rapid spread of broadband
services, the development of value added services
and the introduction of innovative data
transmission solutions. In mobile telephone
services, Tim continued its commitment to launch
new multimedia services and ever more highly
differentiated rate plans that are better suited to
the various types of customers. Telecom Italia
Media achieved a positive gross operating profit
in the Internet segment, where Virgilio confirmed
its role as the main Italian portal. Meanwhile, in
the Television segment, the re-launching program
enabled La7 to consolidate its broadcasting
image, with a share of the viewing audience that
was consistently above 2%, with a high level of
concentration in the upper segments of the
public. Despite the persisting contraction of the
Italian demand for information technology
solutions and increasing pressure from the
competition, the Information Technology Market
business unit improved its levels of profitability.
With its highly competitive technological
platform, Olivetti Tecnost is also emerging from a
radical restructuring program and the redefinition
of its industrial mission and is already producing
positive operating results.
International operations are proving to be an
ever-more important factor with regard to
growth. We are in the process of leveraging the
expertise and the most innovative solutions
developed on the Italian market in the
international sphere. In mobile phone services, in
Brazil, services using GSM technology were
successfully launched nationwide. In Turkey and
Greece, we have consolidated our respective
positions and are ready to benefit from the
growth expected on those two markets. Thanks to
investments made in France and in Germany,
Telecom Italia Wireline is the first European
wireline telephone services operator to expand
into the market of broadband services outside its
national boundaries. 
It is because of these foundations that we can
face the future with optimism. 
In front of us lies an exciting period of innovation
which is likely to radically transform the
telecommunications industry. New value added
services, new terminals and, more particularly,
the convergence of telephone services and the
Internet, made possible by broadband
technology, will open up important new
opportunities for growth. 
When large quantities of data can be transported
at high speed, it will become possible to bring
movies, music, games and other innovative
services into the homes of millions of customers.
Thanks to digital land-based television, the TV will become interactive. Companies will be able to
conduct their business on-line, thus reducing
costs and improving their level of
competitiveness. The true development of the
”Internet Age” is finally taking place.
The Wi-Fi platform and the technologies of the
third generation, EDGE (the latest development of
the GSM platform) and UMTS, will ensure that
broadband technology and services can be used
everywhere.
Finally, a completely new range of fixed and
cordless phones is about to enter our homes
offering a whole range of new possibilities:
“Aladino” was just the first step. We are now
close to the launch of video-phones which use
normal phone lines to transmit high-quality
images and sounds.
Telecom Italia wishes to fully seize the
opportunities for growth in the most promising
areas of the international telecommunications
market. A considerable proportion of our
investments is being spent for this purpose, two thirds being concentrated on innovation.
Investments, I wish to remind you, that will
enable the companies which collaborate with the
Group and with the TI Lab research facilities to
increase their level of competitiveness and their
chances of expanding onto foreign markets in one
of the few hi-tech sectors in which Italy still plays
a primary role on a worldwide scale.
But we can still make an even greater
contribution to our country. In fact, the growth of
telecommunications makes it possible not only to
offer new services to the public at large, but also
to give a considerable boost to the productivity of
the entire economic system. This is being
achieved amid declining telephone charges and,
therefore, without fueling inflation. Countries
which invested in this sector before us, and to a
greater extent, have recorded a higher growth in
GDP and a strengthening of their national
industry and services. It is, therefore, extremely
important that Italy should succeed in enhancing
the enormous potential of the sector to its
advantage.
We shall do everything we can to take up this
challenge. We have the financial resources. We
have the technologies needed. More particularly,
as the results show, we have the human resources
to sustain such a challenge. The commitment of
our employees has already shown that, at every
level, they are well aware of the responsibility and
the privilege of participating in the growth of a
group which is, and intends to remain, an asset of
strategic importance in terms of the
competitiveness of all the countries in which it
operates. Especially Italy. 
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Telecom Italia 2004
LETTER OF THE CHAIRMAN

To the Shareholders,
When we took over the helm of the Telecom Italia
Group towards the end of 2001, we announced that
the cornerstones of our industrial plan would
involve becoming firmly entrenched in cutting edge
technologies and just as firmly oriented towards
the market.
The results of 2004, which are, once again, in line
with the objectives announced to the financial
community, confirm the validity of that plan.
Revenues have increased, profitability has
improved, operating free cash flows have increased
and indebtedness has been further reduced.
An important contribution to the performance of
the Group ? a performance which continues to rank
our Group at the top of the sector in Europe ? has
come from precisely the more innovative areas:
from the vigorous expansion of broadband and
from the success of hi-tech services both in
wireline and mobile telephone services.
Thus new patterns of consumption are emerging ?
based on the exchange of data, images, sounds ?
which are gradually replacing the transportation of
the voice as the key element in the development of
telecommunications. This trend, which applies to
both wireline and mobile telephone services, has
found widespread support in the modernization of
the networks and services, to which we have
devoted a considerable amount of the euro 5
billion we spend on average every year. The
Telecom Italia Wireline Network, in particular, has
been described by authoritative analysts in the
sector as the most technologically sophisticated
network in Europe, the most advanced in the
transition to the IP protocol, that is, in the carrier
techniques that will dominate telecommunications
in a future which is literally just around the corner.
It is precisely the technological level reached by
the networks, together with the confirmation of
new forms of consumption demonstrated by our
customers, which have led us to take an important
step: the merger between TIM and Telecom Italia.
This merger, while in full respect of the restrictions
imposed by the Regulator, will enable us to fully
exploit the innovative potential that lies within the
convergence between the platforms of wireline and mobile telephone services which the manufacturers
of telecommunications systems and equipment
have rendered possible, reliable and affordable in
the last few months.
We now face the prospect of reaching the point
where we can offer consumers and companies, in
both wireline and mobile services, broadband
services which share the same common base, yet
which remain distinct and different in terms of
their characteristics and the specific ways they are
used, according to the communication tools
involved.
The merger between TIM and Telecom Italia will
not only ensure the unitary government of business
processes which are in continuous and often
turbulent evolution, but will make it possible to
create considerable synergies in terms of
investments and operating costs.
However, the purely industrial nature of the merger
has even more far-reaching consequences if we
regard it in the light of the consequences of the
events which have marked the corporate history of
the Group since it was privatized. In fact, the
merger with TIM is the end of the complex journey
that we have made to streamline and rationalize
the corporate structure; a journey which involved
us in the recapitalization of Olivetti in the last
months of 2001 and, in 2003, in the merger
between Olivetti and Telecom Italia.
According to a leading international newspaper,
today, the Group has finally achieved a “normal”
structure. This is certainly the case: cash flows and
debt are now allocated at the same level. This will
make it possible to sustain growth with the
necessary level of investments and to remunerate
our shareholders with an adequate dividend,
reabsorbing, with higher cash flows, also the higher
level of indebtedness resulting from the merger
transaction.
The flattering acclaim given by the market to our
reorganization process is indicative of the
credibility and trust which we have been able to
generate. Credibility and trust have certainly found
solid motivations in the strictness and transparency
of the decisions taken at managerial level and in
the complete sustainability of our conduct. 
Furthermore, the reliability of the Group is
confirmed by the fact that it is capable of
generating growth in all its main business units.
In the field of wireline telephone services, our
company is the only one of all the large European
companies which, even leaving aside the persisting
decrease in the level of voice traffic, for the second
consecutive year, has increased its revenues and
profitability. The merit for this must go to the
launch of the new terminals (Aladino and the
videotelephone), innovative services packages and,
more particularly, to an increase in broadband
connections that has far exceeded expectations.
The number of broadband connections exceeded
the 4 million mark, thus doubling the volumes of
2003 and multiplying by a factor of almost 5 those
reported in 2002. It should be emphasized that this
spread of broadband was accompanied and
encouraged by a series of free increases in
connection speed for both residential and business
customers. At an international level, too, Telecom
Italia is beginning to harvest the fruits of the
investments made on the broadband markets in
France and Germany, with an increase in a single
year from 160 thousand to 420 thousand lines.
Despite the fact that TIM has continued to increase
its voice traffic in Italy, it has increasingly entrusted
its growth to value-added services and the
introduction of the new EDGE and UMTS
technologies which also constitute the launch-pad
for broadband in mobile telephone services. The
contribution by the operations in Brazil has been
significant: by increasing the total number of lines
from 8.3 to 13.6 million, the TIM Brazil Group has
become the second-largest mobile telephone
services operator in the country, is the only one to
have nationwide coverage and is the first to offer
GSM technology.
Telecom Italia Media has increased its revenues
and has turned the gross operating profit into a
positive figure as a result of a boost from the
Internet area, with Virgilio, which has become one
of Italy’s leading portals, and in television, with the
LA7 channel which has yet again increased its
viewing audience and consolidated the image of a
broadcaster of quality oriented towards the higher
range of the public. With regard to digital
terrestrial television, where it has achieved a
coverage of 68% of the population, last January,
LA7 launched a pay-per-view package of the home
games of nine teams in the Italian Series A soccer
championship.
Now that Olivetti Tecnost has completed its
restructuring process and redefined its organization
around Office products and Systems, it has
recovered its technological vitality and innovative
enthusiasm by acquiring new international markets
for specialized terminals and significantly improved
its operating result.
Telecom Italia Lab, which plays an increasingly
important role in the innovation of the Group’s
networks and services, has filed 86 new patents and has contributed to the launch of new products
(such as the Turbo Call service, the Videotelephone
and the Alice Mia Access Gateway), thus
strengthening its collaboration with Pirelli Labs, on
the one hand, and with suppliers, on the other.
Looking to the future, the priority areas on which
we intend to concentrate our efforts and our
investments will be the development of innovative
services and the strengthening of our international
presence.
We want to transform the increasing bandwidth
which we are making available on the wireline and
mobile networks into concrete opportunities to
improve the quality of life for citizens ? whether we
are talking about new ways for people to interact
with the public administrations, contact the
national health service, access information and
learn, or just have fun ? and to increase the
productivity of companies ? whether it is being
used for creating innovation in production
processes, new ways of supplying and using
services, distributing resources from one place to
another or speaking to customers.
As far as international expansion is concerned, we
intend to step up our commitment by following a
path that is already there for us to take: by focusing
very selectively on markets with high development
potential. This means France and Germany in the
case of broadband; it means Brazil and Turkey
because of the size of their markets and also
because they offer us the chance to become an
integrated operator of wireline and mobile
telephone services. We continue to be very
interested in Argentina. At the same time, we shall
continue to divest non-strategic operations abroad,
and intend to devote the resources thus released
partly to reduce indebtedness and partly to invest
in key markets.
By concentrating on the innovation of networks and
services and with an international focus clearly
oriented towards the kind of growth that will
generate profits, Telecom Italia hopes to succeed in
maintaining its position as European leader in a
world of telecommunications that is rapidly
changing. With fewer and fewer utilities providing
voice services (which now constitute less than 40%
of traffic) and an increasingly large infrastructure
for producing and distributing services,
telecommunications have now become a hi-tech
sector and, as such, are destined to play a
fundamental and driving role in economic and
social development.
As far as we are concerned, it is a role for which we
feel responsible and which we shall play with the
utmost commitment, sustained by the enormous
wealth of ability, competence and professional skills
of the people who work for our Group. Their
intelligence and their enthusiasm have been crucial
in making the Telecom Italia Group’s industrial plan
into a success in such a short time.

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Telecom Italia 2005
… we have invented a strategy that relies on five pillars. Firstly, we must exploit the
synergies which have resulted from integration by allocating a large proportion of the
resources which have thus been released for researching and developing innovative
technologies, for strengthening our position on the market and for implementing new
projects to improve customer care.
Then we shall proceed with the continuous development of the network, giving priority to
the development of a single transport infrastructure based on the Internet Protocol, to
bring new technologies to the market and improve the quality of service. As a result, we
shall be able to concentrate our energy and initiative on the importance of the customer,
by providing channels, structures and systems capable of ensuring a rapid, effective,
adequate response to the new technological context. Through the new network and by
giving greater attention to customer satisfaction, we are confident that we shall be able
to maintain the market leadership in all areas: in fixed services, in mobile services and in
convergence based on broadband. The effectiveness of such plans relies, of course, on
the quality of our employees, quality which will be tailored to reflect the new technological
competitive dimension towards which we are heading. It will involve large investments to
enhance and raise the level of their professional skills. Over the next three years, this
commitment, which will focus on training, the development of new jobs and recruitment,
will involve at least 80% of our employees.
In so doing, we intend to augment our level of productivity, which has already risen by
26% since 2001.
This is the basis on which we intend to build the future growth of Telecom Italia, so that
it will become one of the great protagonists of the new world of digital communications:
the most advanced operator from a technological point of view, and the most attractive
from the point of profits.
We intend to pursue this objective while maintaining our firm commitment to respect the
principles of correct conduct, transparency of corporate decisions and responsibility with
regard to the various stakeholders which regulates the governance of the Group.
We intend to reinforce these principles, in keeping with our Code of Ethics and with the
commitments made at a national and international level.

(from the Chairman’s letter to the Shareholders - Annual report 2005) not full!
 
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Telecom Italia 2006

The vocation of Telecom Italia to operate in the hi-technology telecommunications industry
blends with the awareness of the fundamental service that a Group like ours provides in
the economic and social development of all the countries in which it operates.
This awareness is closely tied with the firm belief that our business activities have to be
carried out taking into account the stakeholders’expectations, in line with internationally
accredited Sustainability standards.
Telecom Italia, which adhered in 2002 to the Global Compact promoted by the United
Nations, confirms its commitment to supporting GC principles and to spreading them in
the countries in which it operates.
In 2006 the Group has been confirmed in the main sector stock indexes, both at national
and international level; the qualitative targets set for 2006 with regard to the environment
were reached, while quantitative targets relative to Customers, Human Resources, The
Environment and Digital Divide were defined for 2007; two corporate policies were
developed, one related to the safeguard of working conditions and human rights for all
the Group's subsidiaries in Italy and abroad, and the other related to the safeguard of the
values on which the Group’s Code of Ethics hinges, in supplier relations.
In 2007 we will again promote important national and international initiatives in line with
the commitments undertaken with regard to Sustainability, including the attention to the
level of emissions responsible for the greenhouse effect. We will give special support to
the “Alliance” launched by the European Commission in 2006 in order to make our
continent a pole of excellence in the field of Corporate Social Responsibility.
We do believe in our commitments and we will continue to operate with resolution in
order to confirm Telecom Italia as an industrial asset which is vital for the modernisation
and the social and economic development of Italy and all those countries where we are
confirming the quality of our technologies, services and people.

Carlo Buora
Executive Deputy Chairman
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Telecom Italia 2007

Chairman’s Letter


When I became the chairman of Telecom Italia at the end of 2007, I was very impressed with the 
wealth of professionalism,  motivation and technological competence I found in the Group. I was 
already aware of that, but not up to the level I experienced. I also found it reassuring the 
deep-rooted culture of transparency and integrity.

Such culture does not imbue just the system of rules and procedures governing business management, 
decision-making and dialogue with the market. More generally it imbues all the relations with the 
stakeholders interacting with the Group in its business activities.
This obviously stems not only from ethical or reputational reasons, but from the awareness that the 
creation of value is sustainable in time if we are able to effectively integrate the expectations 
of the context in which we operate, while pursuing our economic goals.

I see this awareness expressed in strategies and facts.

Let’s consider the environment. We are living in a period of many growing concerns about climate 
change, depletion of natural resources, and increasing prices of energy supply.

We are aware of the fact that telecommunication services may considerably contribute to the 
elimination or containment of greenhouse gases emissions. Videoconferences,  telework, infomobility 
services, telemedicine are but a few among the solutions offered by new technologies,  permitting 
to rationalize and reduce transfers of people and goods and the related emissions.  We are also 
aware, however, that these services absorb energy.
The more they are used the more traffic on networks increases and the curve of consumptions shoots 
up, unless we strive to achieve an ever higher level of efficiency. Telecom Italia is doing this. 
In 2007 our eco-efficiency, measured as the ratio between traffic units and energy consumed, showed 
further improvement.

We are currently experimenting with several solutions for the use of alternative energy sources, 
ranging from cogeneration to photovoltaic plants, wind farms and fuel cells.
The first results are rather interesting, as are the ones coming from interventions on heating 
systems,  on corporate car fleet (also involving significant reductions of emissions)  and on the 
handling of technological waste produced by telecommunication activities.

Conducting energy and environmental efficiency pays: it is good both for the planet and for 
businesses.  You could say it is twice as good for businesses:  not only for the economic fall-out 
effects but also as an incentive to technological innovation. A sustainable company is a more 
innovative and competitive company. The financial market recognizes and rewards it.

We are greatly satisfied with the inclusion, also in 2007, in the most important sustainability 
indexes, both at national and international level, and with the inclusion in the group of 20 
companies most often selected at European level by “Green Social and Ethical” funds.

I mentioned the environment, but I could just as well recall the great effort made by the Group to 
significantly reduce the digital divide in Italy. In Telecom Italia the concept of sustainability 
is wide-ranging and involves many applications,  as the following pages illustrate with a wealth of 
detail, data and quantitative targets on which the Group wants to be evaluated in a transparent 
way.
Transparency is one of the main goals of the Alliance, launched in March 2006 by the European 
Commission,  companies and stakeholder representatives,  in order to make Europe a pole of 
excellence in the field of Corporate Social Responsibility.  Telecom Italia is going to give 
special support to this initiative also in 2008.

We mean to continue on this same path: doing business in a sustainable way and create value are as 
a whole. Starting from this standpoint we confirm our commitment to support and spread the values 
and principles of the Global Compact, the initiative originated under the aegis of UN to promote 
the respect of human rights and working standards, to safeguard the environment and to fight 
corruption.

We have the honour to be among the protagonists in a sector, such as telecommunications,  having a 
key role in the economic and social development. This honour involves many responsibilities, which 
we don’t consider as a burden but rather as an incentive to do better and better. And this is for 
everybody, and for the world which we would like our children to inherit in even better conditions 
than the world we’ve found.

Gabriele Galateri di Genola
Chairman
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Telecom Italia 2008

Chairman’s Letter


The year we have left behind us was, for Telecom Italia, a year of unswerving concentration on the 
operational management of the Group, aimed at re-balancing costs and revenues, reinforcing the 
generation of earnings and reducing indebtedness. This management effort took much energy and 
required great discipline in the use of resources. However, this did not push our commitment to all 
the stakeholders into second place. On the contrary, this was further strengthened by its closer 
integration with the activities of the business, and by the establishment of the Telecom Italia 
Foundation with regard to socially-purposive interventions.
These pages, as ever, present a thorough and detailed panorama of actions taken in support of 
sustainability, which encompass the entire company in its many parts.
One example is the progress we are achieving in the environmental sphere. Starting with our own 
activities. In
2008, the Group’s indicator of energy efficiency ? which sets the service offered to the customer, 
expressed in terms of bits transmitted by our networks, against its impact on the environment, 
measured in terms of total energy consumed ? was once again improved, by as much as 35%. The growth 
in traffic was not the only factor contributing to this result. Also very significant was the 
overall reduction of electricity consumption, the first in the last four years. This would not have 
been possible without the continuous work of rationalisation, modernisation and technological 
innovation of the network infrastructure, and experimentation with new systems of energy 
production. Optimising consumption, modernising the fleet of company cars and converting the 
thermal plant have, indeed, reduced the direct and indirect emission of carbon dioxide into the 
atmosphere by about 20,000 tons.
Indubitably, telecommunications in general, and broadband in particular, can play a very important 
role in the environmental cause, with significant repercussions too on social front at the national 
level. Just think of the passage from paper to digital form of communications between the public 
administration, citizens and businesses, eliminating the distances and the necessity for travel. 
Think of the benefits inherent in the services of telemedicine, e-learning, telepresence, 
tele-working and, when travel is unavoidable, infomobility services for traffic management, 
transport and logistics. Now think of the possibilities of using the sensors and connections within 
the network for the more efficient control and management of every use of energy resources.
Another sphere of great social importance in which we are working, very often in close 
collaboration with local public authorities, is that of reducing the digital divide, in order to 
avoid the creation of new forms of discrimination towards those who find it difficult or impossible 
to access information technology. This is an issue we are tackling both from the geographical point 
of view, by extending network and broadband coverage into the more marginal areas, and from the 
cultural point of view, by promoting a wider awareness of digital technologies among the weakest 
strata of society.
This year, the Telecom Italia Foundation has become an integral part of the Group’s Sustainability 
strategy. We have entrusted to it the task of reinforcing our commitment to the community, 
supporting ideas and projects in the fields of education, culture and society, targeted at 
improving people’s quality of life and also contributing, in this way, to the promotion of 
innovation and modernisation within the country, which is an objective of the whole company.
We are proud to note that the determination with which we pursue this goal led to Telecom Italia’s 
place being confirmed in 2008 in all the main global sustainability indexes, which only include the 
most deserving companies, selected through a rigorous process of evaluation. A further cause for 
satisfaction was the recent admission of Tim Participa??es to the ISE index (?ndice de 
Sustentabilidade Empresarial), managed directly by the San Paolo stock market in Brazil. Another 
important acknowledgement has been the co-leadership role taken by the Group in the “laboratory” 
which ? as part of the Alliance between the European Commission and companies launched in March, 
2006, designed to make Europe a pole of excellence in corporate responsibility ? is working to 
develop the criteria and methodology for the effective communication of non-financial performance. 
Still in the area of communication and reporting, it should be noted that Telecom Italia was judged 
by the Carbon Disclosure Project to be the best company in all Italy for the measurement and 
representation of information regarding the emission of greenhouse gases.
This sheaf of positive assessments represents a further stimulus in pursuing our commitment to 
sustainability, continuing to disseminate, in all the countries in which we operate, the principles 
of the Global Compact, the initiative launched by the United Nations in 2000 to promote the 
protection of the environment, respect for human rights and working conditions, and to fight 
corruption.
Ahead of us, the foreseeable future will continue to be characterised by the particularly difficult 
international economic situation. This will put the corporate system under strong pressure, forcing 
businesses to concentrate on the fundamentals of management to a much greater degree than in the 
recent past. Those who, like us, see sustainability as going hand in hand with the creation of 
value, will draw from this renewed motivation, which will certainly make a positive contribution in 
confronting complex circumstances. This will bring benefits for the company’s results, but, first 
and foremost, it will bring benefits for all those who demand from Telecom Italia that contribution 
of innovation and modernisation that will be the solid foundation upon which recovery and new 
prospects for development can be constructed.

Gabriele Galateri di Genola
President

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Telecom Italia 2009


Chairman’s Letter

While the economic scenario remains contradictory, experiencing a succession of rises and falls, 
one phenomenon continues unabated: the spread of communication technology. The International 
Telecommunication Union estimates that 90% of the world’s population is now within the range of a 
mobile telephone network, with over 5 billion active lines joining the 1.2 billion fixed lines. 
There are now over two billion Internet users populating the Web (almost
58% of them in emerging countries), gradually evolving from simple users of communication tools 
into citizens of a digital society that uses the Web to work, come together, circulate ideas and 
projects, create companies, produce culture, discuss politics, values and religious beliefs. These 
technologies are shaping new lifestyles and relationships and reorganising economies wounded by the 
recession. In extreme but not rare cases, these technologies provide the momentum and support for 
people to demand freedom and reform, as the ex- periences of the past few months have demonstrated 
in North Africa and the Middle East.

With its networks, products and technological solutions, Telecom Italia is fully involved in this 
global process aimed at building a digital economy and society, which form the basis for the 
greater prosperity of current and future generations.
There are therefore two sides to our commitment to sustainable development. As an indus- trial 
company, we are committed to conducting our business in an ethical way, which means that our 
responsibility to remain competitive is part and parcel of our responsibility towards stakeholders. 
This is what we have clearly stated in our Code of Ethics and by signing up to the UN Global 
Compact, in which we play an active part, recording the progress we are mak- ing in applying its 
principles and promoting the activities of the Italian network.

Like the other main players in the world of telecommunication, we are also committed to achieving a 
wider dissemination of digital technologies, in order to serve the needs of people in their private 
and working lives, to support corporate development and innovation, to in- crease the efficiency 
and quality of public services and, last but not least, to ensure greater respect for the 
environment and a more effective fight against climate change. In both these respects, we believe 
that the company has made enormous progress in recent years, as in fact has been recognised by the 
inclusion of Telecom Italia in all the main international sus- tainability indexes, including its 
seventh successive inclusion in the DJSI World and the DJSI Europe indexes.

As is once again demonstrated by the pages of this Report, we showed our commitment to 
sustainability in many different fields in 2010. These included continued investment in the network 
infrastructure, aimed at ensuring the greatest possible expansion of broadband coverage (which 
currently covers 97% of our fixed lines in Italy and almost 84% of mobile lines), while ensuring 
economic feasibility and often collaborating closely with the Italian re- gions. Smart Services are 
an increasingly important part of this programme.  They include the Smart Town platform, which can 
be considered as the management nucleus of a digital city (administering its energy requirements, 
providing local surveillance and allowing communica- tion with citizens), and Smart Building, in 
which ICT applications integrate with new materi- als, considerably improving energy consumption, 
comfort and security. Many local authori- ties and companies have now adopted these technological 
tools. Alongside these there are home automation solutions designed, among other things, to 
optimise the use of household appliances (Green@Home). We have developed forms of cloud computing 
that allow small and medium sized companies to access applications and data remotely, cutting the 
cost of technological infrastructure as well as energy use and emissions (Ospit@Virtuale).  A 
contri- bution to a “greener” economy will undoubtedly be made by Biblet Store, Italy’s first 
digital bookshop, and by the gradual spread of e-readers and electronic publishing.

Another essential dimension of people’s quality of life on which we are working is health, and more 
generally the fight against difficulty and alienation. We are working with the managers of the 
Italian national health system to digitise managerial and clinical processes, in order to improve 
their efficiency and guarantee their sustainability to deal with the burdens associ- ated with an 
ageing population and the imperative of controlling public spending. We are de- veloping original 
solutions in the field of home telemedicine and telecare for the chronically ill (MyDoctor@Home). 
We are expanding the project to allow children in long-term care, in the oncology and haematology 
departments of Italy’s leading paediatric hospitals, to remain in contact with their families, 
schools and society in general. One of the main initiatives of the Telecom Italia Foundation is the 
Dyslexia Programme aimed at fighting this disorder in Italian schools, benefiting from the valuable 
contribution that new technologies can make in this field.
We are also continuing to provide training on the use of digital tools so that everyone, without 
exception, can benefit from them as much as possible. We therefore have ongoing computer literacy 
programmes for older generations, involving tens of thousands of people every year. A tour around 
schools and Italian town squares has also led to the further consolidation of our project to train 
children to make an informed and responsible use of the Internet and new media (Safe Browsing), 
which plans to involve at least one hundred thousand young stu- dents, teachers and adults.

Environmental sustainability and social sustainability are challenges that we have met at home as 
well, within the Group itself.
With regard to the fight against climate change, in spite of the significant progress already made, 
in 2010 Telecom Italia used less energy for heating and travel and less electricity (-3.4%) and less paper, and produced fewer CO2 emissions (-5.7%). Our eco-efficiency indicator (measured in bits transmitted per joule) improved further by 29%, a considerable increase that 
is added to the ones achieved over the previous six years. Of course the background to 

all this is the day-to-day work being done to modernise our technology, rationalise the use of 
resources, renew the vehicle fleet and build awareness.

However, our most intensive work last year was in the social sphere, where we had to re- concile 
the reasons for competitiveness with the reasons for sustainability. The imperative of 
restructuring and relaunching Telecom Italia required us to pursue a business plan that pro- vided 
for a reduction in the number of people employed in Italy. We dealt with this change by trying to 
reduce the repercussions on our people as much as possible. Open and construc- tive dialogue with 
trade unions and the Government identified avenues - including recourse to mobility and the more 
extensive application of solidarity contracts in Italy - aimed at re- sponding to the Company’s 
efficiency needs and guaranteeing that workers are respected and protected. At the same time, we 
launched extensive professional retraining programmes to adapt today’s skills to the professional 
profiles of tomorrow.

And as a demonstration of how much we believe in the broad cultural development of our people, we 
offered them the opportunity to combine their company training with education unrelated to their 
job, attending free university courses online, the first project of its kind in Italy. The success 
of this programme has been truly remarkable. The same is true of the em- ployee’s share ownership 
plan, to which 16% of potential subscribers signed up, compared to a European average in big 
companies of less than 5%. Financial participation is also an important factor of cohesion, mutual 
trust and sharing the commitment to relaunching com- petitiveness.

It is with these people, with its massive store of technological capabilities, plus a now well- 
established financial recovery process that is freeing up resources for investment in growth, that 
Telecom Italia is in a position to strengthen its contribution to the establishment of a digital 
society and economy with greater opportunities for development, more inclusive and respectful of the environment.

Gabriele Galateri di Genola
Chairman

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Telecom Italia 2010

Chairman’s Letter

While the economic scenario remains contradictory, experiencing a succession of rises and falls, 
one phenomenon continues unabated: the spread of communication technology. The International 
Telecommunication Union estimates that 90% of the world’s population is now within the range of a 
mobile telephone network, with over 5 billion active lines joining the 1.2 billion fixed lines. 
There are now over two billion Internet users populating the Web (almost
58% of them in emerging countries), gradually evolving from simple users of communication tools 
into citizens of a digital society that uses the Web to work, come together, circulate ideas and 
projects, create companies, produce culture, discuss politics, values and religious beliefs. These 
technologies are shaping new lifestyles and relationships and reorganising economies wounded by the 
recession. In extreme but not rare cases, these technologies provide the momentum and support for 
people to demand freedom and reform, as the ex- periences of the past few months have demonstrated 
in North Africa and the Middle East.

With its networks, products and technological solutions, Telecom Italia is fully involved in this 
global process aimed at building a digital economy and society, which form the basis for the 
greater prosperity of current and future generations.
There are therefore two sides to our commitment to sustainable development. As an indus- trial 
company, we are committed to conducting our business in an ethical way, which means that our 
responsibility to remain competitive is part and parcel of our responsibility towards stakeholders. 
This is what we have clearly stated in our Code of Ethics and by signing up to the UN Global 
Compact, in which we play an active part, recording the progress we are mak- ing in applying its 
principles and promoting the activities of the Italian network.

Like the other main players in the world of telecommunication, we are also committed to achieving a 
wider dissemination of digital technologies, in order to serve the needs of people in their private 
and working lives, to support corporate development and innovation, to in- crease the efficiency 
and quality of public services and, last but not least, to ensure greater respect for the 
environment and a more effective fight against climate change. In both these respects, we believe 
that the company has made enormous progress in recent years, as in fact has been recognised by the 
inclusion of Telecom Italia in all the main international sus- tainability indexes, including its 
seventh successive inclusion in the DJSI World and the DJSI Europe indexes.

As is once again demonstrated by the pages of this Report, we showed our commitment to
sustainability in many different fields in 2010. These included continued investment in the
network infrastructure, aimed at ensuring the greatest possible expansion of broadband
coverage (which currently covers 97% of our fixed lines in Italy and almost 84% of mobile
lines), while ensuring economic feasibility and often collaborating closely with the Italian regions.
Smart Services are an increasingly important part of this programme. They include the
Smart Town platform, which can be considered as the management nucleus of a digital city
(administering its energy requirements, providing local surveillance and allowing communication
with citizens), and Smart Building, in which ICT applications integrate with new materials,
considerably improving energy consumption, comfort and security. Many local authorities
and companies have now adopted these technological tools. Alongside these there are
home automation solutions designed, among other things, to optimise the use of household
appliances (Green@Home). We have developed forms of cloud computing that allow small
and medium sized companies to access applications and data remotely, cutting the cost of
technological infrastructure as well as energy use and emissions (Ospit@Virtuale). A contribution
to a “greener” economy will undoubtedly be made by Biblet Store, Italy’s first digital
bookshop, and by the gradual spread of e-readers and electronic publishing.
Another essential dimension of people’s quality of life on which we are working is health, and
more generally the fight against difficulty and alienation. We are working with the managers
of the Italian national health system to digitise managerial and clinical processes, in order
to improve their efficiency and guarantee their sustainability to deal with the burdens associated
with an ageing population and the imperative of controlling public spending. We are developing
original solutions in the field of home telemedicine and telecare for the chronically
ill (MyDoctor@Home). We are expanding the project to allow children in long-term care, in
the oncology and haematology departments of Italy’s leading paediatric hospitals, to remain
in contact with their families, schools and society in general. One of the main initiatives of
the Telecom Italia Foundation is the Dyslexia Programme aimed at fighting this disorder in
Italian schools, benefiting from the valuable contribution that new technologies can make in
this field.
We are also continuing to provide training on the use of digital tools so that everyone, without
exception, can benefit from them as much as possible. We therefore have ongoing computer
literacy programmes for older generations, involving tens of thousands of people every year.
A tour around schools and Italian town squares has also led to the further consolidation of
our project to train children to make an informed and responsible use of the Internet and
new media (Safe Browsing), which plans to involve at least one hundred thousand young students,
teachers and adults.
Environmental sustainability and social sustainability are challenges that we have met at
home as well, within the Group itself.
With regard to the fight against climate change, in spite of the significant progress already
made, in 2010 Telecom Italia used less energy for heating and travel and less electricity
(-3.4%) and less paper, and produced fewer CO2 emissions (-5.7%). Our eco-efficiency indicator
(measured in bits transmitted per joule) improved further by 29%, a considerable increase
that is added to the ones achieved over the previous six years. Of course the background to all this is the day-to-day work being done to modernise our technology, rationalise the use of
resources, renew the vehicle fleet and build awareness.
However, our most intensive work last year was in the social sphere, where we had to reconcile
the reasons for competitiveness with the reasons for sustainability. The imperative of
restructuring and relaunching Telecom Italia required us to pursue a business plan that provided
for a reduction in the number of people employed in Italy. We dealt with this change by
trying to reduce the repercussions on our people as much as possible. Open and constructive
dialogue with trade unions and the Government identified avenues - including recourse
to mobility and the more extensive application of solidarity contracts in Italy - aimed at responding
to the Company’s efficiency needs and guaranteeing that workers are respected
and protected. At the same time, we launched extensive professional retraining programmes
to adapt today’s skills to the professional profiles of tomorrow.
And as a demonstration of how much we believe in the broad cultural development of our
people, we offered them the opportunity to combine their company training with education
unrelated to their job, attending free university courses online, the first project of its kind in
Italy. The success of this programme has been truly remarkable. The same is true of the employee’s
share ownership plan, to which 16% of potential subscribers signed up, compared
to a European average in big companies of less than 5%. Financial participation is also an
important factor of cohesion, mutual trust and sharing the commitment to relaunching competitiveness.
It is with these people, with its massive store of technological capabilities, plus a now wellestablished
financial recovery process that is freeing up resources for investment in growth,
that Telecom Italia is in a position to strengthen its contribution to the establishment of a
digital society and economy with greater opportunities for development, more inclusive and
respectful of the environment.

Gabriele Galateri di Genola
Chairman

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Telecom Italia 2011

Chairman’s Letter

In a macro-economic environment characterised by one of the worst international econom- ic crisis 
since the end of the war, which in just two years (2008 and 2009) reduced gross domestic product by 
two percentage points, wiping out the slow growth achieved with great difficulty during the 
previous five years, we have handled the challenges imposed by the competitive and business 
environment with courage and determination.
The arrival of new players in the world of telecommunication has led to a profound rethink of the 
way we are required to operate, but we have faced the new competitive environment with awareness of 
the values that make us unique.

In the four years just ended, we have worked tirelessly to cut costs and improve the com- 
petitiveness of our commercial offerings, for the benefit of customers and the market. We have 
dealt responsibly with the staff redundancies foreseen by the business plan, imple- menting 
solutions agreed with the social partners that have minimised the impact on em- ployees.
Thanks to the consolidation and relaunch of activities in Brazil and Argentina, we have been able 
to rebalance our presence in foreign markets, recovering the strong international vocation that 
Telecom Italia had in the past.
Through a careful management of company’s operations we have rebalanced the ratio be- tween debt 
and cash generation, bringing it back to normal levels.
We have developed a constructive dialogue with the Authorities, promoting innovative so- lutions 
that fulfil requirements in terms of ensuring protection and equality of treatment between our 
sales division and alternative operators.
We have continued to act incisively with regard to compliance and behavioural practices, 
transforming our organisational architecture in order to build more effective control sys- tems.

Responding to customer needs remains the main priority in the Group's business strate- gies and the 
results achieved in terms of improving satisfaction indexes reward the efforts made, although we 
believe we can do even better.
All of this has been done because we believe that a sustainable company is a company that takes 
into high consideration its own impacts on the whole system with which it has to interact in every 
corporate decision it makes.
And it is precisely with the aim of increasing the level of awareness of the importance of
these aspects in the decision-making process that we have launched a sustainability training
plan dedicated to all employees, which will continue throughout 2012. This is a concrete
knowledge development tool based on an e-learning platform and on themed virtual
classrooms aimed at creating a common and shared knowledge base within the Group.
Constant attention to technological innovation and process management improvement
has allowed us to increase our energy efficiency and produce significant results, including
a 6.3% reduction in electricity consumption and a 6.2% reduction in carbon dioxide emissions
into the atmosphere.
Our commitment to supporting the values of sustainability has allowed us to achieve important
national and international acknowledgements, including our inclusion in all the major
global sustainability indexes.
We continue to support the United National Global Compact through our involvement in the
Italian network and our reporting of the progress achieved in applying the ten principles.
In the near future, our Group will be required to make important strategic choices, the effects
of which will extend over the medium to long term. When evaluating choices of this
magnitude we need to consider the interests of today as well as those of tomorrow, assessing
their sustainability from all points of view.
In developing next generation networks, for example, we have opted for an architecture
which, in addition to being economically efficient, is also a solution that allows the greatest
energy savings to be achieved.
In the future, companies and Public Administrations will increasingly be opting for innovative
Smart Service solutions that allow the most efficient use of resources, while at the
same time ensuring a reduction in environmental impact and an improvement in citizens'
quality of life. Telecom Italia intends to play a leading role in this context.
In less than five years, our Group has changed. Its expectations, prospects, behaviour and
fundamental values have changed and its commitment to doing business responsibly has
strengthened, in the belief that this is a prerequisite for the success of the Group in the
long term.

Franco Bernab?
(Chairman & Ceo)

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Telecom Italia 2012

Chairman’s Letter

In 2012, the sharp decline in domestic consumption led to a more than 2% reduction in Italian Gross 
Domestic Product. The worsening of the international macroeconomic situa- tion also had 
repercussions in Argentina and Brazil, which experienced a significant slow- down in growth rates.

At such a difficult time for the national and international economy, sustainable businesses are 
those that are able to cope with the crisis by improving their efficiency and productivity while at 
the same time having a positive effect on the economic and social context in which they operate. 
This second aspect is all the more important when, as in the case of Telecom Italia, the bond and 
mutual influence between the business and its context are strong.

Telecom Italia has primarily had a positive impact on the economy through the investments it has 
made in developing broadband and ultra-broadband fixed and mobile networks. The recent launch of 
LTE services further improves the performance of the mobile network, al- lowing the range of mobile 
digital services to be greatly expanded.

In recent years, our work has been driven by the achievement of major objectives in terms of 
reducing debt, containing costs and relaunching competitiveness. At the same time, however, we have 
endeavoured to mitigate the social impact of the efficiency and rationali- sation measures required 
through major training and retraining activities.

As a whole, in addition to improving the strength of our Group, our actions have had a posi- tive 
effect on citizens and businesses, both by significantly reducing prices and ensuring a greater 
focus on service quality and by introducing innovative services, such as the cloud computing 
services known as Nuvola Italiana. In this context, Telecom Italia’s offer is evolv- ing towards 
solutions that combine economic benefits, flexibility and technological perfor- mance with 
guarantees in terms of data security and energy efficiency.

The sustainability report provides a detailed description of the main initiatives undertak- en by 
our Group over the past year. In particular, Telecom Italia signed an agreement with other major 
European telecommunications groups, known as the JAC (Joint Audit Coopera- tion), to improve the 
general standard of sustainability regarding environmental protection, human rights and workers’ 
rights. With regard to energy efficiency, considering that the Telecom Italia Group is Italy’s  
second biggest electricity consumer, we achieved equally significant and important results by cutting our electricity consumption and carbon dioxide
emissions by over 14%.
In an economic crisis, it is essential to support communities and particularly the weakest
members of society. In this context, we continued to implement cultural, solidarity and environmental
protection projects and activities, both directly and through the Telecom Italia
Foundation.
Our commitment to supporting the values of sustainability and the initiatives carried out
have won us major national and international recognition, including our continued inclusion
in all the major global sustainability indexes.
We continue to support the United National Global Compact through our involvement in the
Italian network and our reporting of the progress achieved in applying the ten principles.
Digital networks and services are an increasingly integral part of the social and economic
context in which we live. For our Group, in the context of its activities, being sustainable
is therefore even more important. Achieving ever better standards of sustainability is a
journey made up of continuing headway towards increasingly ambitious targets, a journey
to which Telecom Italia has always been and will always be committed, with all its professional
resources and its technological skills.

Franco Bernab?
(Chairman & Ceo)
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------Telecom Italia 2013

Telecom Italia has confirmed its commitment to Corporate Social Responsibility in a challenging domestic macroeconomic scenario, with continuing difficulties in the labour market, benefiting from a growth in Brazil, albeit slower than in the previous year, in the belief that sustainable businesses are the ones most able to react in times of crisis. 

The industrial nature of Telecom Italia is strongly interconnected with the contexts in which it operates. Our Group has a clear positive effect on the economy, which stems from the investments made in infrastructure and services. Maintaining leadership in innovation is one of the priorities of the 2014-2016 Business Plan, a commitment supported by the mix of investments, where spending on innovation has doubled compared to the previous Business Plan. This will allow us to relaunch investments in new generation networks in Brazil and to hook into the recovery in Italy, improving the competitiveness of the production system.

Focus on technological innovation is combined with environmental protection and, in particular, energy efficiency. Constant improvement on this front remains one of the most challenging goals for Telecom Italia, the second biggest electricity user in the country. Over the past three years, we have introduced constant monitoring of Energy Efficiency Certificates (so-called White Certificates) application activities for the benefit of investment projects, with major impacts on energy efficiency. A strong focus on this specific area has allowed revenue of 16 million euros to be earned in White Certificates. These figures make Telecom Italia the absolute leader among Italian telecommunication companies in terms of introducing innovative high energy performance technologies and solutions. In 2013, we also achieved the ISO 50001 certification, which is the most widely recognised international best practice in energy management.

Telecom Italia can contribute to the European Digital Agenda objectives not only by achieving internal efficiencies but also by aiming to transfer technologies to its customers that have positive environmental, social and economic impacts. Our laboratories have long been engaged in researching and developing these technologies, many of which are already being tested on the market. Thus customers already have a wide range of solutions available to them to reduce energy consumption, lower CO2 emissions and improve quality of life for citizens. This is one of the reasons why a significant portion of our investments goes towards strengthening services which are fundamental for developing and meeting the demand for ultrabroadband: cloud computing with Nuvola Italiana, Data Centres, ICT platforms for small and medium-sized enterprises. 

Mindful of the fact that the success of Telecom Italia depends on our skills and expertise, in December 2013 the People Value function launched the new three-year People Strategy for 2014-2016, aimed at developing the skills of the people who work in the Group. For this purpose, several areas of action have been identified with the aim of enhancing and developing core skills and the abilities required to excel in the various competitive scenarios, improving the standard of care and motivation among people and renewing the individual performance management model.

Telecom Italia has always been very attentive to the Supply Chain. Through the Joint Audit Cooperation (JAC), work continued in 2013 to verify the standard of CSR performance among suppliers and sub-suppliers with production plants located in geographical areas with a significant level of socio-environmental risk. Launched at the end of 2009, the initiative currently brings together ten of the biggest operators in the telecommunications sector. Furthermore, the new process implemented to assess the sustainability of suppliers has allowed us to improve further performance monitoring throughout all stages of the relationship with the supply chain. 

In view of the current economic crisis, we have increased our support for the community, both directly and through the Telecom Italia Foundation. In 2013, the Foundation in fact doubled the number of projects delivered, thus confirming the Group’s commitment to the community. Among the various initiatives based on the use of social technologies, our commitment focused on countering communication difficulties among young people through the Volis, SI DO RE MI and Cinque Petali projects, while not forgetting our commitment to protect the historic and artistic heritage and supporting the development of education, training and scientific research. The Group also continued to work with major Italian artistic and cultural organisations to develop projects aimed at combining excellent cultural content with digital language, making the most of the interaction opportunities offered by the Internet, as in the case of the Academy of Saint Cecilia. 

Furthermore, in the context of the “Changemakers for Expo Milano 2015”, an enterprise acceleration programme linked to the challenges presented by Expo Milano 2015, Telecom Italia has selected ten projects that are strongly focused on digital technologies, such as smart cities, opendata, web 2.0 and sustainability in terms of access, inclusion, fairness, justice, participation and reducing environmental impact. 

Our commitment to supporting the values of sustainability and the initiatives carried out have won us major national and international recognition, which includes confirmation of our presence in the major international sustainability indexes, including the Dow Jones Sustainability and FTSE4Good indexes.

Support continued for the United Nations Global Compact: the progress achieved in applying the ten principles is reported in the Communication On Progress (COP). Telecom Italia is also a Founding Promoter of the Global Compact Network Italia Foundation, set up in June 2013, which aims to contribute to the development of the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) in Italy, disseminating knowledge about it throughout the country and promoting corporate sustainability through member companies and organisations. 

2013 was a very important year for our Group. We achieved greater financial flexibility and refocused on Italy and Brazil. We can now redouble our efforts to develop more industrial projects, including digital networks and services that are increasingly interconnected with our social and economic context. We are committed not to miss this opportunity to be ever more present and incisive in pursuing more ambitious objectives including increasingly integrating sustainability in our business model. We believe all these efforts are an essential prerequisite for continuing growth and success for the Group, now and in the future.
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ Telef?nica 2003

Letter from the Chairman

Dear Friend,

This is the second consecutive year Telef?nica has presented its Corporate Responsibility Annual Report. All the information provided in it is in keeping with our vision: we wish to be your trusted operator; and we know the only way to deserve that confidence is, on the one hand, to fulfil the commitments acquired day by day, and on the other, to maintain an attitude of proximity and nearness based on an understanding of your needs, expectations and legitimate interests. Whether you are a customer, shareholder, employee, supplier, or simply a citizen in any of the countries we operate in, Telef?nica has a commitment to you.

The report you now have in your hands stems from a basic premise: the foremost and major responsibility for any company is to do well what it endeavours to do, that which arises from its core business activity. Therefore, this Report provides information on processes, management systems, and performance indicators…
in the day to day business we share with each of our stakeholders. From this extensive, comprehensive document, I would like to highlight some key ideas.

First of all, the sum and consolidation of most of the data in the Report makes us aware of a reality of which we feel legitimately proud: Telefonica is a powerful driving force of social, economic and technological development in the countries where it operates. A company the size of the Telef?nica Group has an unquestionable ability to contribute to the development of the societies in which it is present: creating employment, driving the economy, offering innovative products and quality available to all; and taking technology to all walks of life so as to reduce the social and digital divide and provide access for citizens to that future represented by the information society. Only by contributing in a responsible manner to a sustainable development of society will Corporate activities also be sustainable in the medium and long term.

Secondly, the Corporate Responsibility Report shows the enormous ability of Telef?nica to create value beyond its financial assets. Good corporate governance, brand awareness, investment in research and development, commitment to social responsibility or institutional presence, are assets of great value to a company in particular and to its area of operation in general. Telef?nica gives evidence of its commitment to transparency by gathering, quantifying and communicating the value that exists beyond its financial assets. However, we are sure that all the information we now provide is but the beginning of what is yet for us to discover day by day.

Thirdly, linked to the above, there is the importance for a company to maintain relations based on the confidence of all those who approach it, be they employees, customers, shareholders, suppliers or citizens at large. Right from the first edition of this Report, our objective has been to record through facts, data, graphs and figures how the values and commitments of the Telef?nica Group are implemented. However, we think we could go further, that there is still a lot more hidden value to be found in our daily commitments undertaken with each one of our one hundred million customers, one million six hundred thousand shareholders, one hundred and fifty thousand employees, seventeen thousand suppliers and more than five hundred million citizens of the countries where we work. To maintain the confidence of all these groups is undoubtedly one of our main challenges and one of our most valuable assets.

Lastly, a technical conclusion: this Report has been prepared following the 2002 Global Reporting Initiative Guidelines, resulting in a balanced and reasonable presentation of the economic, environmental and social performance of our organisation. The Corporate Responsibility Report of Telef?nica has also become an internal engine to extend best practices within the Group. On the one hand, the information published in it is helping us improve our specific policies for management of our intangible assets, and fulfil our commitments to every one of our stakeholders. To do so, we are using key indicators to know where and how to improve our performance through the design and implementation of specific policies adapted to each country where we operate. On the other hand, several subsidiaries (Telef?nica M?viles, TPI...) have already prepared their own 2003 Responsibility Report on these same bases and schemes. Moreover, this same reporting and working methodology has been extended to our companies in countries such as Brazil and Peru during 2004, which will allow us to determine the local contribution made by the Telef?nica Group.

The aim of this report is thus to reassess and renew our commitments. Essentially, they are the same as one year ago, as they are based on our values but, certainly, they are all reinforced and extended by another year of work and shared culture. Additionally, they encourage us to undertake the coming year with optimism.

Precisely as it is a core element of the culture we share, we cannot forget that Corporate Responsibility is being built by everyone working at the Telef?nica Group. Only if each one of
us internally takes on this commitment, whether our individual contribution be small or great, and only by assuming our responsibility in each process, in each gesture and in each decision we take as employees of this company, will we make it a responsible institution.

Finally, I would like to convey my gratitude, to all those who continue to trust in the Telef?nica Group; to everyone who has taken an interest in our activity; and, most especially, to all those who directly or indirectly have helped us improve our Corporate Responsibility performance through dialogue and constructive criticism.

Sincerely,



C?sar Alierta
Chief Executive Officer of Telef?nica, S.A.

------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ Telef?nica 2004

Letter from the Chairman

Dear Friend,

Telef?nica would like to take this opportunity to present its Annual Corporate Responsibility Report for 2004. As a further example of our commitment to transparency, this is the third consecutive year in which we have published the most relevant information on how the Telef?nica Group interacts with its stakeholders. This report is aimed, therefore, at our customers, investors, shareholders, employees, suppliers and to the general public.

In 2004 Telef?nica established itself as the third largest telecommunications company in the world in terms of market capitalisation, reached the 122 million-customer mark and set itself the goal to become the largest and best integrated telecommunications group in the world. Our aim to be the biggest group is inextricably linked with international markets and innovation. To be the best, however, we must deliver on excellence and commitment. With this in mind, one of the objectives we have set in our Strategic Plan is to commit ourselves to act responsibly in the societies in which we operate. At Telef?nica, we place the same emphasis on how we achieve our objectives and financial results as on the actual objectives and results themselves.

In this respect, the Corporate Responsibility Report is more than just an information report; it is a document we can rightly feel proud of. It represents an extraordinary opportunity for the Group to publish data and indicators and reveal, in the process, that behind every indicator lies a management process, a dedicated team of people and solid policies. Above all, however, behind every single piece of information there is a desire for continuous improvement and a series of realities that spur us on to reach even greater achievements.

The first of these realities concerns Telef?nica’s role as a driving force for the social, technological and economic development of the societies in which it is present. Our business activity generates significant social wealth: business opportunities for suppliers, employment, digital inclusion, education, product and service innovation, and a host of other assets. Although some of these assets are intangible, we have been able to gauge them in this Report using quantitative and qualitative indicators.

The second reality involves our status as a global company and everything that this entails. The values we hold and the key values demanded by society are one and the same. Equal opportunities, diversity and social inclusion are inescapable realities for all companies, and form a vital component in the relationships we enjoy with our stakeholders. Innovation is a lever used to create value both for society and the Company, and we are firmly committed to it. Similarly, solidarity with society is an essential element in any company’s operations and which the vast majority of Telef?nica employees are wholeheartedly supportive of in this respect. As a global citizen, Telef?nica shares the concerns and values of society, having identified with them for many decades now.

The third reality concerns the significance of corporate responsibility itself. For Telef?nica, responsibility is but a means of managing its business. By making a positive impact through our business activity we can generate sustainability for all. In our quest to reach the standards that ensure we operate responsibly, this year has seen us make significant progress on two fronts. Firstly, our financial auditor has made improvements in the rigorous verification of the data appearing in this report. Secondly, we have restated our commitment to the Global Compact by applying the Communication on Progress model proposed by the United Nations. This initiative, which we have endorsed and supported for many years, encapsulates what we see as the essence of business responsibility from a global and multidisciplinary viewpoint.

As evidence of our high standards, this Report has been prepared in accordance with the 2002 GRI Guidelines. It represents a balanced and reasonable presentation of our organization’s economic, environmental, and social performance. As we announced twelve months ago, several companies within the Telef?nica Group will be presenting their own Corporate Responsibility Reports this year, following the same lines as the overall Group report. This reporting and operating framework was also extended to Argentina, Brazil, Chile and Peru in 2004, helping us to assess the specific contribution made by the Telef?nica Group in these countries.

Finally, I would like to draw your attention to the dynamic nature of the information provided in this document. The progress and improvements we make or hope to make in the years to come will be founded on dialogue with our stakeholders; it is our belief that by creating value for our stakeholders we can also create value for the Company as a whole. I would also like to express my sincere gratitude to all those of you who, through your constructive criticism, have helped us to progress. Let there be no doubt that we shall continue to promote corporate responsibility, while striving to enhance the quality of information contained in this year’s Report.

Yours faithfully



C?sar Alierta
Chief Executive Officer of Telef?nica, S.A.

------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ Telef?nica 2005

Letter from the Chairman

Dear Friend,

Telef?nica would like to present you, for the fourth consecutive year, its Annual Corporate
Responsibility Report, one of the keystones of the Group’s corporate responsibility strategy.

The report we present for FY 2005 is a further step towards Telef?nica’s strategic goal of being a committed and responsible Group. Committed, in that we are involved in the progress and development of the countries where we operate, through the transformation of our innovations into global communications solutions. And responsible in that we are focused on permanently improving the way in which we carry out our operations. At Telef?nica we understand that as far as we are capable of generating a positive impact on society, we will also be capable of generating profitable and sustainable growth for everyone, thereby guaranteeing the sustainability of our company.

This annual Report introduces improvements with regard to the reports for previous years, in an effort to remain at the forefront of the corporate responsibility movement that has been growing throughout Europe and Latin America for some years now.

The first improvement in this Report has been its ability to consolidate a comprehensive corporate responsibility reporting system at Telef?nica. This system has already borne results, such as the CR Reports for Argentina, Brazil, Chile and Peru. These “country reports” are a natural consequence of our commitment to initiatives promoted by the UN such as the Global Compact and the Millennium Goals, as well as the result of our “multidomestic” character. On the one hand, we are global, because of our size, presence and services. In 2005 we have further reinforced our internationality with the acquisitions of ?esky Telecom and O2 in Europe and our strategic alliance with China Netcom. On the other hand, we are also local, because, beyond sharing the same language, especially in Latin America, it is our desire to contribute to the communities we belong to through understanding and addressing their needs.

The second improvement in this Report has been its ability to transform internal management processes and systems on a worldwide scale. In 2005, special progress was made with the environmental management systems and the implementation of specific policies to extend best corporate responsibility practices from Europe to Latin America, and vice versa. To this aim, the
2005 report includes a detailed account of goals and challenges for 2006.

Thirdly, the 2005 Report includes many of the lines for improvement and progress suggested to us by our stakeholders following a detailed analysis of the reports for previous years. The fact is that, as was expressed in a series of dialogue panels held during the financial year, there is great interest in Telef?nica's behaviour towards its customers, suppliers, employees of Telef?nica Group, etc.

Fourthly, the report on corporate responsibility strives to present what we internally refer to as “the other Telef?nica”, that is, the Telef?nica that lies behind its financial results. For many of our stakeholders, Telef?nica is much more than a telecommunications services provider. Many
already perceive us as a driving force behind the social, technological and economic development of the societies in which we operate. Our activity generates an important wealth in social, employment, digital inclusion and education terms, as well as in product and service innovation, business opportunities for suppliers… The benefits that information and communication technologies can bring to sustainable development provide a great opportunity for our business and for the societies in which we are present.

Lastly, the 2005 Report has taken us a step further in our search for rigour, transparency and relevance of information. Thus, the 2005 Report has been externally verified by Ernst&Young, in accordance with the Standard AA1000/AS, as regards the consolidation boundary in Spain. The aim has been to offer a balanced and reasonable presentation of the economic, environmental and social performance of our organisation. In addition, once again, the Report has been prepared in accordance with the 2002 Global Reporting Initiative Guidelines for all the consolidation boundary of the Group. We are proud that our commitment to transparency has been acknowledged with the inclusion of Telef?nica in the main indices of companies who invest responsibly and with the many awards and special mentions received in 2005.

To conclude, I would like to reaffirm our commitment to permanent improvement in this corporate responsibility report. This improvement would be possible without  the understanding and support from our stakeholders. That is why I wish to express our sincere gratitude to all those who, through their opinions and suggestions, have allowed us to make progress.

Best regards,


C?sar Alierta
Executive Chairman, Telef?nica, S.A.

------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ Telef?nica 2006

Letter from the Chairman

Dear friend,

Corporate Responsibility is not a passing fad stirred up by academic debate. It is here to stay. Responsible business practices have become integral to many companies‘ strategic plans.

Customers, employees and shareholders demand greater integrity from modern companies. Society is also recognising that business is often well placed to be part of the solution and to help create social and economic progress. Beyond headline news, corporate responsibility promises to play a really important role in 21st century enterprise.

At Telef?nica we believe that corporate responsibility (CR) must also create value for our company. It must sit comfortably with our overall business vision, influence the way we interact with stakeholders and be absorbed thoroughly in our business structure and strategy. We do not see it as a ‘plug-in’, but as a way of life that guides our actions every day.

In this, our fifth Corporate Responsibility Report, I am pleased to announce that we took two important steps during 2006. We defined our new corporate vision, published on the cover of this report, and set out the Business Principles that govern the way we work. These Principles, ratified by the Board of Directors, combine our previous Code of Conduct with the Business Principles of O2. By adopting them across the Telef?nica Group we aim to build a common culture of integrity wherever we operate in the world.

With this vision and framework in place, our next step is to turn words into facts. How will we do this?

Firstly, we are working to ensure management excellence in all our activities. Our goal is to meet the demands and expectations of our customers and shareholders while also combining our growth with the interests of our employees and the communities we serve.

By the end of 2006 Telef?nica was the world’s third largest telecoms operator by number of customer access points and one of the world's top three companies in terms of added value. The sheer number of our stakeholders demonstrates our scale: over 200 million customers, 233,000 employees, 1.7 million shareholders, 20,000 suppliers and a presence in 23 countries.

That puts the onus on us to do bigger and better things, responsibly. So we have set ourselves the goal of increasing customer satisfaction levels beyond the 6.78 scored in 2006 and to turn our customers into the most enthusiastic ambassadors of our brands. In addition, we want to raise the satisfaction of our employees above the 62.1% achieved in the last financial year and to become the best company to work for by 2010.

We are also targeting our innovation budget - some 4.3 billion euros in 2006 - more directly to customers’ needs.
We want Telef?nica, which generated and distributed wealth in excess of 80 billion euros last year, to be seen as a force for social, economic and technological progress.

Secondly, we aim to tailor our social actions as closely as possible to our business strategy. We want the Telef?nica Foundation’s programmes to connect well with the company’s vision of improving people’s lives, fostering business growth and contributing to social progress through information  communications technology (ICT).

Our Proni?o Programme is a great example. It allowed 25,339 children to return to school in 2006, freeing them from the scourge of child labour and enabling them to enjoy the potential of ICT in education. We also want EducaRed, our educational online tool for primary and secondary schools - which already connects over 25 million people - to become a catalyst for the development of technologies in education. In summary: our social actions will grow ever closer to our corporate mission.

Thirdly, our CR strategy will focus progressively on reducing any negative effects of our operations. You will see in this Report that we are developing policies that shape our behaviour and, thus, our reputation. Among others, we have highlighted policies on child protection, the environment, people with disabilities, and supply chain ethics.

Lastly, we are determined to promote social inclusion through ICT and to narrow the so-called digital divide. Telef?nica is a major player here. Our business model, particularly in Latin America, is designed to reduce the gaps caused by economy, geography and lack of education. They include specially adapted tariffs for customers with scant resources, the spread of fixed and mobile broadband coverage, and more training in the use of ICT.

Again this year, I would like to emphasize that Telef?nica remains committed to the United Nations Global Compact. This initiative reflects our approach to CR: it is multi- stakeholder, global but also local, voluntary, and aimed at achieving business excellence.

During 2006 we collaborated with organizations such as AHCIET [Iberoamerican Association of Telecom Operators] and the SEGIB [Iberoamerican General Secretariat] to find ways in which ICT can contribute to the achievement of the UN’s Millennium Goals to build a better world for the next generation. Together with the Corporate Reputation Forum, we launched an unprecedented campaign to promote them through the symbol of Joana.

To conclude, I should like to reaffirm our commitment to continuous improvement in our corporate responsibility report. This would not be possible without the support of our stakeholders, and we welcome and encourage your comments and feedback through the Telef?nica CR website.

May I also extend my sincere gratitude to all those who, through their opinions and suggestions, have helped us to move ahead with our vision to be a force for social progress.



C?sar Alierta
Chairman and CEO, Telef?nica S.A..

------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ Telef?nica 2007

Letter from the Chairman

Telef?nica’s commitment

Dear friends,

Telef?nica ended 2007 with spectacular results in every sense. We won the confidence of our customers with more than 228 million connections and efficient management of our resources. As a result we were able to increase profit by 42% on the previous year. These excellent results were reflected in shareholder remuneration: a yield of 42% for all those who kept their shares throughout 2007.

As well as these business results, 2007 was also a key year for Telef?nica's drive to become a more responsible company in the way it relates to its different stakeholder groups. In my 2006 letter I was happy to announce that Telef?nica had redefined its corporate vision and Business Principles. This year I want to report on the five major steps we have taken to turn this vision and these principles into a common culture of integrity and ethics that will apply worldwide - how we have moved from words to action, from worthy declarations to reality on the ground.

First, Corporate Responsibility (CR) has been integrated into our operational strategies in Spain, Europe and Latin America through the application of our “spirit of progress” vision. Our employees have worked hard to support initiatives that will improve people’s lives and society’s development by the use of Telef?nica technology. Fundamentally, it is about turning Telef?nica itself into a strategic ally of economic, technological and social progress in the countries where it operates.

We have set ambitious targets over the next few years for improving customer satisfaction and the working environment at Telef?nica. We are aware that both these indicators are interlinked and we cannot hope to become the operator of choice for our customers or the company most appreciated by society if we are not, at the same time, seen as the best place to work.

Secondly, we have taken forward the application of the Business Principles to all company operations. Not only have 36,000 employees been trained in our code of conduct, but we have also run major initiatives based on clearly defined policies to ensure socially responsible behaviour in advertising, child protection, data protection, environmental management, accessibility for people with disabilities, compliance with ethical standards throughout the supply chain, and control of the amount of junk mail and spam. Nor will we stop there. We have now set a target of training 80% of our employees in the next twelve months.

For several years now we have argued at Telef?nica that CSR is a question of striking the right balance between achieving results and how we achieve them. By implementing the rules associated with our Business Principles we make sure that our day-to-day processes meet the highest ethical standards.

The third CSR front which we developed in 2007 was to incentivise customers to make best use of the possibilities offered by new technologies. We seek to educate customers on the safe use of technology by children, the recycling of handsets and obsolete equipment, protection against computer viruses and other security problems, and the considerate use of mobile phones in public places. We have made a start with messages on bills, on the website, in brochures and in stores...and the campaign will be rolled out on a wider scale in 2008.

In the same vein of promoting responsible progress, Telef?nica wants to make sure that all citizens can enjoy the benefits of ICT by breaking down economic, geographical or disability barriers. In 2007, we continued to roll out infrastructure with new commercial offers designed to match the needs of our customers and to promote education in the use of technology through programs such as the Telef?nica Foundation’s EducaRed.

We also continued our Information Society Reports and developed many institutional initiatives to take forward the debate on how ICT can help serve social progress. Issues such as computer literacy, health, e-administration and the media were dealt with in a range of publications and events sponsored by Telef?nica including the second Latin American conference on ICT and the Millennium Goals, held in Santiago de Chile by AHCIET and the Ibero-American Secretariat General. Finally, we brought the world’s biggest global internet event to Latin America: the Campus Party. In 2008 this was held in Brazil for the first time and was a great success. Colombia is shortly to host its own version.

Fifth and finally, Telef?nica has kept up its commitment to education and meeting social needs through investment in social welfare projects. In 2007 the company’s commitment came to nearly 90 million euros based on the criteria of the London Benchmarking Group (LBG). I must highlight the Telef?nica Foundation’s Proni?o program, which for another year doubled the number of children it helps, ending 2007 with 52,000 direct beneficiaries. In 2008, we want more than 100,000 children to have the chance to go to school, escaping the grim life of child labour, and to have ever more access to the educational possibilities offered by ICT.

This year, too, I want once again to underline Telef?nica's firm commitment to the United Nations Global Compact and to the fulfilment of its principles. This initiative embodies what corporate responsibility means to Telef?nica: an approach that takes account of all stakeholders, that is simultaneously global and local, that is voluntary and designed to promote excellence in corporate behaviour.

I would like to end by reaffirming to you our commitment to continuous improvement in this Corporate Responsibility report which we are publishing in local versions for each of the countries where we operate. This improvement will only be possible with the understanding and support of our stakeholders. I would like to extend my most sincere thanks to all of those who, with their opinions and suggestions, have helped bring us nearer towards achieving our vision.

C?sar Alierta
Executive Chairman, Telef?nica S.A.

------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ Telef?nica 2008
Letter from the Chairman

Dear Friend,

For the seventh year running, Telef?nica presents its Annual Corporate Responsibility (CR) Report to its stakeholders. This Report does not set out to present an account of the Company’s economic results ? these have been faithfully recorded in the Annual Economic Report ? but rather to describe, with complete transparency, the way in which we achieved our financial objectives in 2008.

In terms of CR, 2008 was a good year for Telef?nica in many respects. First of all, as outlined in our last Managers Summit, because we set ourselves the goal of becoming leaders in our sector by 2011 based on three key initiatives: more innovation (new drivers and growth engines); more transformation (maximum operating efficiency throughout the business); and a significant contribution to environmental sustainability.

The goal of incorporating sustainability into our 2011 strategic focus areas is our way of integrating our commitment towards society into the Company’s core business and firmly linking responsible behaviour with management processes and the balance sheet. In 2008, this link allowed us to improve our customers’ satisfaction index, which stood at 6.92, an increase of 0.15 points compared to the previous year. It has also enabled us to improve our Employee Satisfaction Index, which averaged 69%, 3 points higher than in 2007. Finally, there was a 4% increase in our global corporate reputation index thanks to improvements in all categories (products, innovation, good place to work, honesty and the support given to social causes and protection of the environment).

Secondly, the year was good in terms of CR because we made significant progress putting in place systems and internal processes aimed at ensuring management integrity. The Human Resources, and Reputation and Responsibility Committee, attached to Telef?nica S.A.’s Board  of Directors, was responsible for driving and overseeing all these processes. Over 60,000 employees received training on our Business Principles; action was taken in 360 cases to enforce fulfilment of our Principles; and we signed the ‘Human Rights; a call to Action’ declaration, promoted by the Global Compact of the United Nations to coincide with the 60th anniversary of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. We also implemented internal procedures to extend our ethical principles to the supply chain and protect children and adolescents when using technologies and approved new processes to regulate risk management, data protection and the integration of disabled people into the workplace...these are all examples of how Telef?nica is making progress through measures designed to guarantee the integrity of our management. This has been acknowledged by the two most important indices that measure socially responsible investment: the Dow Jones Sustainability Index (DJSI) and the FTSE 4Good.

The third important point to note in 2008 was that we placed particular emphasis on the positive impact that our products, services and solutions have on society. This
2009 Report has devoted a chapter to describing the programmes (numbering over 60) put in place by the Company that aim to reduce the digital divide ? or the inequalities that arise between people and communities who use Information and Communication Technologies  (ICT) on a daily basis and those who either have no access to these technologies or lack the skills to use them. We grouped Telef?nica’s programmes into four main categories: the economic divide; the technological skills divide; the geographical divide and the health and disability divide.

To support this work, Telef?nica invested over 370 million euros to reduce the digital divide. Around 275 million was directed to the resources used to maintain the Universal Service provision (104 million euros was the net cost of the Universal Service provision in 2007 by Telef?nica Espa?a); 15 million euros were set aside for training initiatives in Information and Communication Technologies and over 80 million euros went to projects aimed at reducing the economic and geographical divides.

Additionally, we remained highly committed to social and cultural programmes in 2008.

According to the LBG measurement model, the Company invested about 115 million euros in these programmes during the year. I would particularly like to single out ‘Proni?o’, the Fundaci?n Telef?nica programme, which for the third year running has managed to double the number of children receiving schooling and so contribute to the struggle against child labour: today, over 107,000 boys and girls can look forward to a brighter future thanks to the combined efforts of the Fundaci?n Telef?nica and over 100 NGOs operating in Latin America. Alongside
‘Proni?o’, the Foundation is actively promoting ‘EducaRed’ (aimed at improving the quality of education through the useof ICT) and corporate volunteering (in 2008, around 22,000 employees across the Telef?nica Group volunteered some 340,000 hours).

By way of conclusion, I think 2008 has been a good year in terms of CR because we have continued to improve the way we report and communicate our achievements. We are proud to say that Telef?nica does not merely devote a report to CR; but has a whole management system dedicated to its effective management.

The Telef?nica S.A. CR Report stands at the fore of the reports we publish in 17 countries, putting into practice our strategy: with activities at a global (the aim of the United Nations’ multilateral initiative, GRI or indices such as the DJSI) and local level (responding to the needs of stakeholders in each country). We have also relied on the external verification provided by our auditor in order to guarantee the materiality and accuracy of the information and have adhered to the strictest standards available worldwide: GRI and AA1000AS. Finally, we have, for the first time, jointly published the Telef?nica CR Report and the Report issued by the Fundaci?n Telef?nica, highlighting the impact our Group has on society.

Furthermore, once again this year, I would like to reaffirm Telef?nica’s commitment to the Global Compact of the United Nations and to the fulfilment of its principles. This initiative reflects what Corporate Responsibility means for Telef?nica ? multi- stakeholder, global and local at the same time, voluntary and in pursuit of entrepreneurial excellence. This year we have published a supplement detailing how we’re fulfilling  these principles, in addition to two more special publications that aim to provide specific answers to matters of particular importance such as our environmental performance and climate change, and the projects put in place to contribute to the Millennium Goals.

I hope you find this report interesting. You will see to what extent we have fulfilled our CR objectives for 2008 and those we have set ourselves for the period 2009-2011. We believe that we are making progress every year. We achieve this progress largely thanks to you, and the confidence you place in us, which inspires us to do things better each day. Please receive my heartfelt gratitude.

C?sar Alierta Izuel
Chairman of Telef?nica, S.A.


------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ Telef?nica 2009

Letter from the Chairman

It gives me great pleasure to present the eighth Telef?nica Corporate Responsibility Report, which serves as an introduction to the various documents ?a total of 18 this year? which our companies have produced at a local level with two aims: to be transparent with stakeholders and highlight the integrity of our management. At Telef?nica,  we are aware that integrated, transparent management plays a key part in trust-building in any organisation.

2009 can be regarded as highly positive for Telef?nica for three reasons. The first of these was the recognition of the Company as a sector leader within the telecommunications industry in the prestigious Dow Jones Sustainability  Index (DJSI), with a rating of 86 points out of a possible 100. This index defines sustainability as “a business focus which seeks to create long- term value for shareholders by taking advantage of opportunities  and the efficient management of the risk that is inherent in economic, environmental and social development”.  At Telef?nica we fully identify with this definition, as it highlights not only our financial  strength but also the way in which the Company generates revenue.

A comprehensive analysis of the DJSI indicates  that Telef?nica has excellent performance in terms of economic sustainability (corporate governance, risk and crisis management,  codes of conduct, customer relations and privacy framework and policy management); that the Company’s social management has also been outstanding (workplace and employment practices, human capital development, the attraction and retention of talent, supplier policies, stakeholder  dialogue,  philanthropy, social reporting, digital inclusion and the impact of telecommunications  services); and, that Telef?nica environmental sustainability still has room for improvement (environmental policy, eco-efficiency, environmental reporting and climate impact strategy). For this reason, by 2015 and through our Climate Change Office, we are now committed to reducing the impact of our activities, by ensuring reductions in electricity consumption in networks of
30% per access point and in offices by 10% per employee.

The second reason which allows us to consider the past year to be a positive one was the decision taken to renovate our method of Corporate Responsibility reporting. This year, coinciding with the tenth anniversary of the UN Global Compact which Telef?nica signed in 2002, we’ve sought to take a further step forward by offering the business community a comparable reporting model, one which is relevant and capable of combining local demands with those of global initiatives (Global Compact and Global Reporting Initiative), and the responsible investment indexes (the DJSI and the FTSE4Good).

The reporting framework that we now present  features  three levels. The first of these (as set out in this printed document) seeks to make our responsible behaviour fully accountable as a global company and allows the comparison of Telef?nica with any other multinational company, whatever its sector. The 10 Principles of the UN’s Global Compact have therefore been taken as a point of reference along with the criteria and measurement indicators offered by the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI). This document will be identical in all the countries in which the Company operates. The second level of the report is fundamentally  based on the relevant areas for the telecommunications  sector (available at www.telefonica.com/cr09) such as the responsibility in the supply chain, the safety and protection of children, digital inclusion and energy efficiency. These areas have been identified  as being relevant through global work groups with all the relevant key players and through the Global e-Sustainability Initiative, (GeSI) an association which brings the Information and Communication Technologies  (ICT) sector together. The third and final level recognises local concerns with decision making corresponding to each of the countries in which we operate.

To conclude, the third reason that we can consider 2009 to have been a positive year in terms of Corporate Responsibility can be found in the bravo! Programme.  This is a transformation programme which Telef?nica has set up to ensure that by 2012 it is the leading global communications  company in the digital world. With this programme, strategic priorities and key initiatives have been established based on five pillars: customer-centred focus; a comprehensive range of services; new platforms to support  an innovative and efficient operating model; and a common culture that creates confidence in the countries in which the Company operates. It is this last pillar that demonstrates the depth of our commitment to be responsible in our communities.

Once again I would like to reiterate my thanks to all those who deal with Telef?nica each and every day. It is you who make our work worthwhile every day, because it is you who daily give your very best.



C?sar Alierta Izuel
Chairman of Telef?nica,  S.A.

----------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Supplementary information 

“Telef?nica promotes its commitment to the Global Compact with its Corporate Responsible Reporting Model”

------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ Telef?nica 2010

LETTER FROM THE EXECUTIVE CHAIRMAN

C?sar Alierta Izuel
Executive Chairman of Telef?nica,  S.A.

Dear Friends,

It is a pleasure for me to present you with Telefonica’s Corporate Responsibility and Sustainability Report, a document which introduces a signi?cant change to our strategy on this topic and our achievements in 2010: for the ?rst time in nine years we have added the concept of Sustainability to the name of the report.

In 2010, we had our best year ever in terms of corporate responsibility. For starters, we led the Dow Jones Sustainability Index (DJSI) for the second consecutive year - the most important socially responsible investment index in the telecommunications supersector including landline and mobile operations. The prestigious magazine Fortune also recognised us as the “Most admired company” in the telecommunications sector among other reasons leading the corporate responsibility ranking in the sector. In addition, Telef?nica has led the Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP) in our sector; it is worth recalling that CDP gathers together 475 investors who jointly manage assets valued at 36 billion euros and which compiles information on risks and opportunities identi?ed relating to climate change, plans to reduce emissions and the transparency of corporate measures to mitigate climate change. In addition, the company has renewed its presence on the ethics investment index FTSE4Good for another year. Finally, to these global achievements, we have the numerous accolades and awards received by all our operators in the different countries where we are present.

Keeping up these achievements in 2011 will not be easy. Exceeding them will be a herculean task. For this reason we have proposed in depth process re-engineering which ranges from a new strategic viewpoint to a new work model. Only somebody who reinvents themselves each day can sustain a leadership position. Allow me to brie?y describe to you the steps we have started to take in this direction.

First of all, we have incorporated into our bravo! programme - a global programme to transform the company for the period 2010-2012 - Corporate Responsibility and Sustainability as key levers of the culture programme. Therefore, together with our brand, our employees, corporate responsibility is a necessary lever to boost our relationship with society. Progress on this topic is followed both in the Board of Directors, Telef?nica’s main governing body, and the executive committee, the main managerial body.

Secondly, also in the ?eld of internal management, we have linked our strategy on this topic to the de?nition made by the DJSI: “Corporate Sustainability - it states in the index - is a business approach that creates long-term shareholder value by embracing opportunities and managing risks deriving from economic, environmental and social developments”. This de?nition is also enabling us to make not only a more signi?cant conceptual approximation to the phenomenon of corporate responsibility but, especially, more of a link to the business strategy, especially in three ?elds: 

?   The management of risks in our business.
We are creating global policies in the most relevant topics in our sector, with the aim of fostering responsible and transparent management in our entire footprint.
Topics such as protection of children; responsible supply chain; protection of human rights; privacy and protection of data; environmental management; electromagnetic ?elds, etc. are matters in which the company seeks to consolidate the same response globally.

?   The management of opportunities linked to the impact of our services in society. The accessibility of ICT to enable the integration of the disabled or the elderly, and new solutions to boost savings and energy ef?ciency, are clear market opportunities for Telef?nica, opportunities which also generate a clear positive impact in society.

?   The Stakeholder engagement, which is enabling us not only to “jointly create” new solutions together with our customers (especially public administrations) but will also help us to incorporate Telef?nica into debates on sustainability which are being carried out in the digital world, social networks and the blogosphere.

Thirdly, we are simplifying our reporting model and, especially, seeking a certain global standard which helps the accountability of our responsible behaviour. Every day, the number of stakeholders asking for consistent and comparable data around sustainability grows; for this reason, any attempt to ?nd a common reporting framework will be welcomed by Telef?nica. In our case, we have opted to link the reporting model to the main global and multilateral initiatives: Global Compact and Global Reporting Initiative (GRI). What is more, we have adopted this both from a global and a local perspective; it is worth recalling that Telef?nica produces 17 Corporate Responsibility reports locally which are also veri?ed externally. For this reason, in 2010 we opted to join the platform Global Compact Lead, an initiative comprised of approximately 50 multinational companies which seek to boost the notion of sustainability driven by the United Nations.

Finally, we are adapting our internal management model in order to ful?l these objectives. Working on sustainability issues means working horizontally, across the organisation, at a corporate, regional and country level. By ensuring we work in this way, we will be capable of achieving our challenges.. corporation, region or country. By ensuring this “horizontality” we will be capable of achieving our challenges.

Our challenge is great. And our hopes of achieving it are high. We continue to count on your trust.


Yours faithfully,

C?sar Alierta Izuel
Executive Chairman of Telef?nica, S.A.

------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ Telef?nica 2011

Dear Friends,

At Telef?nica, our calling to become a strategic ally for the technological, economic and social development of the communities in which we operate is built into our DNA. We are convinced that our sector can provide solutions to the most important problems faced by the planet: wherever information and communication technologies (ICT) are implemented, productivity rises, education improves, health and energy costs fall and inclusion is promoted. To put it another way: wherever ICT are found, there is development.

At Telef?nica, as a leading telecom, we want to contribute to that development with two approaches to our work. With the first, we hope to drive corporate sustainability, understood as a strategy based on the creation of long-term value, by seizing opportunities and by efficaciously managing the risks inherent to economic, social and environmental development (in line with the Dow Jones Sustainability Index’s definition of this concept)1. With the second, and through the Fundaci?n Telef?nica, we strive to promote community work and cultural endeavours, and, especially, through educational programmes that eradicate child labour and facilitate access to knowledge and the use of ICT2.

In this document, the reader will find an executive summary of our activity in 2011. In preparing this summary we have focused on the three basic dimensions of sustainability: the economic dimension (supply chain, codes of conduct, child protection and privacy); the social dimension (climate and commitment, safety and health, diversity, digital inclusion and social projects); and the environmental dimension (energy efficiency and green services), as well as the references to each of the 10 Principles composing the UN Global Compact.

We are firmly convinced that we can be an engine of development and progress in the societies and countries where we work. Our challenge is to be a little better every day.



C?sar Alierta
Chairman and CEO of Telef?nica

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------Telefonica 2012

It is a pleasure for me to write to you and introduce the eleventh Annual Sustainability Report of Telef?nica, corresponding to the 2012 fiscal year, which we publish to promote our unavoidable commitment to transparency with all our interest groups, and our objective to value the integrity and sustainability of our management and society in general.

We consider sustainable management the best way to reach our vision to transform possibilities in reality, with the aim to create value for employees, clients, shareholders, global partners, and for all of society in general. 

In short, corporate sustainability is a clear source of competitiveness and progress of our Company. It increases brand and difference value in Telef?nica´s client relationships. It helps to attract and retain our employees and offer them a stable project in our Company. Corporate responsibility faces society, because it strengthens our genuineness at the time of offering our digital services and allows the sustainable development of the communities in which we operate.

At Telef?nica, we actively participate in the debate to promote sustainability as part of international and regional public agendas. It is for this reason we have been publishing our report according to World Agreement principles and in virtue of the international standards such as Global Reporting Initiative (GRI-G3.1), and as in previous years our Report is verified externally according to AA1000 criteria. In addition, we have adhered to the new initiatives such as the International Integrated Report or the Global Compact Lead platform, a project formed by close to 50 multinational companies that seek to promote the idea of Sustainability under the impulse of the United Nations.

The important advances on sustainability of our company in 2012 are discussed on this report based on a triple perspective: financial, environmental and social. This report outlines the financial dimension of sustainability among other subjects, highlighting the advancement achieved in the identification and quantification of reputational risks. 

As regards the scope of the Principles of Conduct of the Group, it is important to indicate how Telef?nica continues to work on the implementation and dissemination of the ethical code, which is the ground for the creation of a new corporate culture supported on transparency and integrity. 

As regards the protection of data and privacy, the activity of the Company in this scope has revolved mainly around four pillars, the creation of a security environment, the inclusion of security of new products, the development of initiatives related with the responsible use of Information and Telecommunication Technology and the collaboration with international organizations. 

In the environmental field, Telef?nica has based its strategy on the management of environmental risks, promotion of internal ecoefficiency and search of business opportunities through Information and Telecommunication Technology Services that promote an economy with lower carbon dioxide emissions. 

In short, in 2012, Telef?nica positioned itself among the world top five leading companies C?sar Alierta Izuel Chairman & CEO in Telecommunications in the Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP), the highest investment index on global energy and climate change issues. Furthermore, the company highlights the advancements on energy efficiency, which entail direct energy savings of 5 million Euros. Additionally, Telef?nica established a new CO2 (carbon dioxide) emissions reduction level of 30% per client for 2020.

The social field section inside the report outline among other subjects, those issues related with work environment, commitment, security and health, diversity, digital inclusion and social projects. 

In this occasion, I want to highlight some of our digital inclusion projects, such as the initiative carried out in Peru to identify the best inclusion initiatives in rural zones based on Information and Telecommunication Technology Services. Wanda, the company created together with MasterCard for the development of mobile payments in Latin America is noteworthy for persons with lower technology resources who cannot access a bank account even though they own a mobile device. On the other hand, the M-Inclusion project, co-financed by the European Commission has been implemented in order to carry out the first Platform of Social Inclusion through mobile solutions for Europe and Latin America.

During 2012, we have analyzed the evaluation of the Group impact on issues of human rights. In relation to this last subject, Telef?nica signed the Governing Principles of Freedom of Speech and Privacy of the Information and Telecommunication Technology Services and developed the Methodology Guide for the identification and evaluation of child labor risks. 

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------Telefonica 2013

Dear friends,

Once again I have the pleasure of writing to you to present the Annual Corporate Sustainability Report, which recounts our activities in the areas of risk management and leverage of opportunities, and our effective management of the risks inherent to economic, environmental and social development.

This Report, which Telef?nica has been publishing since 2004, aims to respond to the concerns about information and transparency that the distinct groups with a stake in our activities may have. Similarly, it entails compliance ahead of time with European Union Directive 2013/34 with respect to “disclosure of non-financial and diversity information by certain large companies and groups”. In addition, we would like it to answer demands for information that are being made in some of the countries in which we operate, under the format “inform or explain”.

We at Telef?nica are convinced that corporate sustainability and transparency are long-term sources of competitiveness and progress. Not only do these help to underscore our legitimacy to operate in the different countries in which we are present, but they also have positive repercussions on the management of our business, and therefore on our results. Moreover, ICT, based on connectivity, are leading the processes of transformation of our society and they are an essential factor in the creation of employment, economic growth, saving energy and transparency, as is shown by the digital agendas of the most important public and private bodies in the world. 

In this Report you will be able to see the progress that Telef?nica has made during the financial year along the three basic dimensions of sustainability: economic, social and environmental. With regard to the economic impact, which in terms of sustainability has to do above all with the way in which we obtain our income and carry out our activities, we should mention the achievements of our Business Principles Office during 2013, the advances in compliance with the principles of sustainability in our chain of suppliers, and the progress we have made on privacy and data protection.

Relating to the social impact, in this Sustainability Report 2013, we have emphasised diversity management in the workforce, the projects of digital inclusion and social innovation, and also the important schemes to boost entrepreneurship in which we are engaged. 

On the environmental side, you will find complete information about our environment policy in this Report. We continue to reduce our energy consumption and are moving forward noticeably with electronic billing as an alternative to paper consumption, and in addition our “green” services have made important advances which are already being translated into income for the Company. 

As you will be able to see, sustainability is being incorporated gradually into the value chain of Telef?nica. Indeed, we are collaborating actively with all the interest groups which have a relationship with our Company, and we are offering exhaustive information on the developments in the most relevant subjects, our indicators and our sustainability policies in terms of standard publication criteria like the GRI and the UN Global Compact.

All this means that in 2013, our Company has been included in the worldwide Dow Jones Sustainability Index; it was fifth in the Carbon Disclosure Project and Sustainalytics rankings; it was recognised in the Excellence Investment Register by the Ethibel Sustainability index; and, for the twelfth year in a row, it forms part of the FTSE4Good ranking. And as a consequence of all this, Telef?nica was acknowledged in 2013 as the most admired European telecommunications company, and second in the world, by Fortune magazine.

I would like to conclude by reminding you that our Company is currently positioned as a fundamental actor in the sector. Being able to count on the recognised team of professionals that we have assures me that I can say to you that Telef?nica is going to play an ever more decisive role in the digital world, because we are convinced that technology ought to be within reach of all individuals, companies and public authorities, so that they can BE MORE.

I would like to express my thanks for the support of our stakeholders who, with their opinions and suggestions, have helped us to move forward in achieving our vision.
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ Vodafone 2000-2001

*{responsibilities, demand, clear, consistent response, operate}
*{statement, commitment, corporate social responsibility, represents, core values, intend, judged}
*{Vodafone’s concern, well being, staff, wider physical, social environment, commend, customers, shareholders, local communities, operate}

*{Annual Report & Accounts, outlined, determination, leading position, environmental, community issues}
*{Vodafone Group, building, systems, structures, ensure, meet, international responsibilities, reduce, minimize, environmental, social impact, business, maximize, opportunities, continue, deliver}
*{recognized, good employer, continue, develop, implement, policies, employment, human rights}
*{arises naturally, way of doing business}
*{Fulfilling, passion, excellence, involves, reaching, highest standards of social, environmental responsibility, providing, outstanding service, customers}

*{principles, philosophy, need, express, clearly}
*{first published statement, Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR), Vodafone, aspires, achieve, deliver, main environmental, social issues, rightly concern, shareholders, stakeholders, world}
*{companion document, Report & Accounts and Annual Review, supports, belief, sound, policies, environmental, social responsibility, necessary, product development, marketing, building, sustained business success}

By adhering to these values Vodafone will continue to enjoy the confidence and trust of customers, employees, investors, governments, regulators and civil society.

Everyone who works for Vodafone is expected to participate in the achievement of our environmental and social policies and, by sharing in common principles, to ensure that we maintain
the confidence and support of those who have contributed to our success.

------------------------------------------------------------------------------------Supplementary information

Vodafone is now one of the world’s leading mobile telecommunications companies.
Our success spans the globe and we are determined to use it as a force for good.
By extending our customer base, expanding geographically and developing innovative services, we have achieved a global reach that brings worldwide responsibilities with it.

‘Fulfilling our passion for excellence involves reaching the highest standards of social and environmental responsibility, just as much as providing outstanding service to our customers.’

------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ Vodafone 2001-2002

Our vision has guided us consistently during the past five years of the company’s remarkable 
growth. It is underpinned by core values that define what we are as a business and how we behave as 
individual employees. With all the uncertainties and challenges currently facing multinational 
businesses these shared values help us to retain our focus and consolidate our strengths.
Over the past 12 months we have refined and articulated these core values more clearly than ever 
before. They have become Vodafone’s ‘four passions’
? for customers, for results, for our people, and for the world around us. They also embody our 
commitment to the goals of CSR. Delivering them means maximising the benefits that mobile 
telecommunications can bring while minimising any negative impacts. Our corporate value of Passion 
for the World Around Us, in particular, expresses our belief in the positive contribution we have 
to offer - a contribution with a potential undreamt of even 20 years ago.
The global reach of Vodafone’s technologies and services brings real value to people’s lives. As 
this report demonstrates, it is also delivering wider

social, environmental and economic benefits. In doing so, we are returning value to the company. 
For example, if the Vodafone Group minimises its environmental impact it will achieve efficiencies 
which will help cut our costs; and by instituting a CSR management  system it means we will be able 
to manage environmental and social risks that much better.
The message of our Vision and Values, which Group Chief Operating Officer Julian Horn-Smith and I 
have personally delivered throughout the Vodafone Group, has received an impressively enthusiastic 
response from our people. From Newbury to Milan to Sydney they have shown their determination to 
deliver value to the company and to the world around us in real and practical ways. In this they 
are being
encouraged and helped by one of many significant developments of the past year ? our global CSR 
network. It is made up of key individuals who are now actively championing  the CSR agenda in every 
one of our subsidiary operations.
This time last year, I said that we were determined to use Vodafone’s success as a force for good. 
In this, our second report  on CSR, we can demonstrate how

that is beginning to happen with reference to measurable achievements. We have made real progress 
and, most importantly, we have put in place the structures, mechanisms and patterns of
behaviour that will deliver much more over time.

We have no intention of standing still. Ours is
a dynamic business and our vision for the Vodafone Group is one of constant improvement. Our 
enthusiastic commitment to CSR, reflected in this report, is no less ambitious.

Sir Chistopher Gent
Chief Executive
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------Supplementary information
Throughout Vodafone there is a deep passion for what we do and how we do it.
Our shared vision is to be the world’s mobile communications leader ? enriching customers lives, 
helping individuals, businesses and communities be more connected in a mobile world.

------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ Vodafone 2002-2003

Statement by Sir Christopher Gent
Chief Executive

The mobile phone has rapidly become an integral part of our lives. In many countries more than half 
the population uses a mobile phone and, in some developing economies, mobiles are often people’s 
only means of telecommunication.
Vodafone has been a leader in this revolution, helping people to connect with one another across 
the globe. We accept the responsibilities that come with our success and influence ? including our 
social and environmental responsibilities. Indeed,
we welcome the challenge because we believe we provide a service that enriches people’s lives and 
is a force for good in the world. However, there remain some important challenges for us and for
our industry and we will rise to meet those challenges
(for more detail, see pages 22-23).

Over the past two years, we have grown as a values-based and value- driven organisation. We have 
articulated and communicated our values across the Vodafone Group, and this has helped to unify our 
diverse, multi- national company. We have strengthened governance and management structures to 
deliver our values; and we have developed a set of Business Principles which all of our operating 
companies have pledged to uphold.
I am pleased to have been involved in this work, as well as our growing Corporate Social 
Responsibility programme.  In particular, I have concentrated my contribution in three areas: 
engaging with stakeholders, working with our suppliers, and supporting local communities.
As Vodafone continues to grow as a business, so does our need to engage with a wider range of 
stakeholders. I see it as part of the Chief Executive’s job to lead this process and have spent 
considerable time talking to employees, investors, government and non-government  representatives, 
lobby groups and many others about what they think of our company.
The results are encouraging, but we can do more.

Vodafone’s suppliers play a critical role in helping us to achieve our business goals. This now 
extends to our social and environmental goals as well. We expect our suppliers to live up to our 
Business Principles
and have begun to communicate this clearly to them. In February 2003, we hosted a CSR workshop  for 
some of our major global suppliers, where I specifically asked for their support on our CSR goals. The response
was very positive. The event also helped us to progress our draft Code of
Responsible Purchasing (for more detail see page 16).
Supporting local communities is a critical part of our commitment to the
world around us. I was proud to be able to launch during the past year the
Vodafone Group Foundation, which sets out a clear policy for our social
investment and establishes a structure for co-ordinating contributions of
both cash and skills. The Foundation will be an important tool for leveraging
our efforts to enhance people’s lives where it counts most (for more detail
on the Group Foundation’s first year’s work see pages 18 and 19).
In my view, these activities represent a good start on the road to CSR
best practice. But it is only a beginning. This, our third CSR report, is an
account of our performance over the last year. It contains more detailed
measurement of our impacts than our first two reports and begins to
record the positive impact that our business can have on the world around
us. It also seeks to address some of the difficult issues we will face in the
coming years.
Our company is increasingly recognised as the world’s mobile
communications leader ? innovative, dynamic, profitable and, above all,
well-run by people with a passion for success.We also aspire to be seen
as leaders of corporate responsibility in our industry. I hand over the reins
to Arun Sarin, our Chief Executive designate, at a very exciting time, secure
in the knowledge that he will be working with people driven by values that
will ensure Vodafone achieves this goal. I know he is as passionate about
corporate responsibility as I am.

------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ Vodafone 2003-2004
Message from Arun Sarin
Chief Executive

Vodafone is a company driven by vision, values and goals.
We aspire to be a great company ? and central to that is
being a responsible business.
We already have a clear compass. One of our four values
is ‘Passion for the world around us’ and one of our
six strategic goals is to ‘be a responsible business’.
Our challenge now is to embed these values in Vodafone’s
culture at every level.
The business we are in touches people’s lives: our products
and services help customers connect with friends, families
and colleagues. These connections help build communities,
create societies and make countries. With our operations
spanning 26 countries, we have a significant impact on
society and we must take our responsibility for the world
around us seriously.
During my first year at Vodafone I have travelled around the
business extensively and have had the chance to interact
with several thousand of our employees. In every country
there are great examples of how we are living our values.
For example, during a business trip to South Africa I
visited Soweto to see how our associate, Vodacom,
turned a regulatory requirement into a business model, providing 22,000 phones to under-serviced areas and
uplifting communities across the country. Through
Vodacom’s Community Service phone kiosks, housed
mainly in customised shipping containers, local
entrepreneurs were introduced to the mobile
telecommunications business. Overnight these locations
developed into ‘centres of commerce’ as they attracted
other businesses, boosting the local economy by
connecting it to untapped commercial opportunities and
helping to lift local people out of poverty. This kind of work
exemplifies what our business is all about: connecting
people and enriching lives.
We are also taking firm action to implement our goal to
‘be a responsible business’, particularly when it comes to
earning the trust of our customers and other stakeholders
in areas of concern such as mobiles and health, supply
chain and access to inappropriate content. For example,
during 2003/04 we have spent ?23 billion with our
suppliers, contributing to jobs and wealth creation for a lot
of people. But a ?23 billion supply chain also carries risks
in relation to potential abuse of human rights and labour
standards. We are already starting to manage these risks
through our Code of Ethical Purchasing, which we are
advocating to all our suppliers. We also participate in
forums aimed at achieving a common industry method of
assessing social and environmental supply chain risks.
These are just a few examples of how our Vodafone team
is demonstrating a commitment to business responsibility
every day of every year ? and there are many more.
As a global leader in mobile telecommunications, it’s
important for us to take a lead in setting standards for
the way we go about our business. We have come a long
way ? and we have a long way yet to go ? but Vodafone
is committed to making a positive difference.
We said, we have, we will…
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ Vodafone 2004-2005

Letter from the Chief Executive

We have six strategic goals and CR is one of them. Corporate responsibility is a vehicle for 
achieving prosperity in society and in business. I believe it is about generating win?win business 
ideas that balance the interests of different stakeholders. In essence, when Vodafone talks about 
CR we mean sustainable development.

In a world where billions live in poverty, where the population continues to grow and where the 
earth’s resources are being over-exploited, we cannot afford to let things take their course. 
People and organisations with influence need to step
up to the challenge and ask themselves, what can we do to promote  a more sustainable way of 
living? That’s the journey Vodafone has embarked on and we intend to harness the potential of 
mobile technology for the benefit of society and our shareholders.

Sustainable development in the mobile sector combines a complex series of issues and I am grateful 
to Jonathon Porritt, Allen Hammond and Claudia Kruse for providing us with challenging and 
enlightening comment (opposite).
What excites them and us is the potential for a thriving mobile sector to drive economic 
development. We are researching the socio-economic impacts of mobile and finding that regardless of 
location or wealth, mobile technology nearly always brings benefits to people contributing to 
social development.

The scope of our CR programme is necessarily broad to ensure we manage all the issues of importance 
to our stakeholders. The most exciting areas are opportunities such as growing our business in 
developing economies and broadening our existing customer base through products that are accessible 
to the elderly and disabled.

Our interest in the developing world is not borne out of a philanthropic  desire to
‘do good’, but a recognition of the commercial reality that the next billion mobile users live in 
developing countries. I invited renowned sustainable development 

author CK Prahalad to give a presentation to our top 200 directors. He challenged us to comprehend 
that doing business in the developing world requires different products and services that make 
mobile widely accessible to consumers in
these countries and in doing so create new benefits for them.

Like any new industry, we have our challenges and we are addressing them. This report provides a 
balanced account of the work we are doing on radio frequency fields and health, network 
development, inappropriate content, spam, energy consumption, handset recycling, our supply chain 
and a host of other subjects that our stakeholders have told us they are concerned about.

In most CR reports, the CEO confirms that CR is one of the company’s top priorities. Vodafone can 
substantiate this with the key objectives in our five-year plan, prepared at my request by 
Vodafone’s Group CR Director, Charlotte Grezo, and recently approved by Vodafone’s Executive 
Committee.

As we continue to learn from our stakeholders, my vision for corporate responsibility is that it 
becomes fully integrated into everything we do ? it becomes instinctive. We are some way from that 
position and I look forward to reporting progress to you next year.

------------------------------------------------------------------------------------Supplementary information
For me, corporate responsibility is not altruism. Nor is it just a form of risk management. CR will 
be integral to the future success of business.

------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Vodafone 2006

*{Welcome, CR report}
*{first reported, established, CR department}
*{outset, decide, ambitious}
*{not believe, half responsible, pick, choose, convenient areas, responsible, set, simple challenge, recognized leader, CR}
*{made, progress}

*{global team of CR managers, local operating company}
*{operating companies, published, local CR reports}
*{operating companies, handset, recycling programmes, begun, supplier, CR assessements}
*{Access controls, available, operating companies, offer, age-restricted content, Vodafone live}
*{annual survey of CR opinion leaders, Group CR report, good, excellent}

*{early progress, learned, CR challenge, perpetual}
*{new issues, arise, expectations, raised}

*{key challenge, company, embed, CR, every level, every local, operating company}
*{achieving, creating, organizational culture, instinctive course of actions, responsible course of action}
*{Vodafone’s formal statement, vision, values, goals, Passion for the World Around Us}
*{write down, values}

*{arrived, Vodafone, CR, strategic goals}
*{Executive Committee, approved, CR strategy, sets, clear priorities, ethics, stakeholders engagement, consistency, responsibility, customers, reuse, recycling, energy, climate change, socio-economic value}
*{engage, stakeholders, listen, concerns, discover, time, right thing, pays}
*{give, specific examples}

*{want, customers, enjoy, wide range of services, internet access, ability, share, video, picture downloads}
*{want, confident, risk, particular concern, parents, concerned, children, access content, suitable, adult audience}
*{worked, wide range of experts, non-governmental organizations, industry partners, develop, ways, ensure, risk, kept, minimum}
*{committed, introducing, access controls, markets}
*{proud, achievement, look forward, similar service, all markets}

*{believe, industry, great potential, generate social, economic development, particularly, individuals, businesses, developing world}
*{wanted, investigate, potential, robust independent research, report, Africa, impact of mobile phones, shows, correlation, mobile penetration, GDP growth}
*{report highlights, positive, role, mobile, play, developing world, contributed, developing better, understanding, social, economic impact, industry}

*{real growth potential, emerging markets, win-win proposition, business, economies}
*{agreed, acquire, Turkey, acquired, stake, Barthi Telecom, India, increased, stake, Vodacom, South Africa, Tanzania, Lesotho, Mozambique, Democratic Republic of the Congo}
*{see, development of innovative product, services, tailored, needs of local customers}
*{expand, encounter, new CR issues, clear commitment, ethical standards, essential guide, behavior}

*{announced, social investment fund, develop, mobile product, services ,benefit society}
*{builds, work, initiated, areas, social alarms, teleassistance, microfinance, inclusive design}
*{new fund, help, explore further, opportunities ,develop, products, high social value, commercial benefits}
*{fund, used, launch, entirely new use of mobile-facilitating microfinance, developing regions, not served, conventional banking networks}

*{new technologies, services, bring, new challenges}
*{extension of mobile, new areas, internet access, providing TV programme content, requires, think, issues, virus protection, security, privacy, nature of programme, internet content, carry}
*{emphasizes, strategic role CR plays, business}

*{Vodafone, largest companies, world, running, large company, ethical, transparent}
*{vital, reporting of financial, non-financial issues, trusted}
*{Vodafone, intends, long-term, build, sustain, great global company, requires, ethical underpininning}
*{believe, CR, long-term shareholder value, aligned}
*{look forward, reporting, progress, beyond}

Chief executive
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Vodafone 2007


Vodafone’s global reach touches on many aspects of corporate responsibility. A number of 
stakeholders have asked us questions during the year and here Vodafone Group CEO, Arun  Sarin, 
responds to some of the key themes raised:
How do mobile communications drive social and economic benefit? What is Vodafone doing to ensure 
low-income  groups can access your services? Vodafone’s business focus is to provide communications 
services to individuals and businesses around the world. One of the key features of our success 
over the past 20 years has been the social and economic benefit that these services can deliver.
In the developed world, mobile is an additional form of communication for people who already have 
access to several different communication services. The reason why it has become so successful is 
because of the additional benefit of efficiency that mobility brings. Mobile communications enables 
individuals
to make the most of their time socially and economically by providing access to people and 
information when required.
In the developing world, instead of providing an alternative choice of communications, we often 
find that mobile provides people with a communication service for the very first time. Due to a 
lack of fixed-line infrastructure, individuals have been unable to access convenient and low-cost 
communications but mobile is beginning to change this. People are now using mobile communications 
to engage in society and the economic system. This can help them to earn a living, improve 
education and maintain social cohesion by enabling ongoing communication with family and friends. 
The efficiency of mobility is bringing them similar benefits to their counterparts in the developed 
world, but the impact is obviously greater as they are experiencing these benefits for the first 
time.
A good example of the effect of mobile communications is the impact it has had on the lives of 
Indian fisherman off the coast of northern Kerala. By having access to communications, fishermen 
are able to call ahead and choose which port to land their catch. This has created a more efficient 
market for their fish by matching supply with demand and thereby eliminating wastage. The 
fishermen’s profits rose as they were able to sell all their stock and the price of fish fell for 
consumers as more efficient distribution created economies of scale. Access to information enables 
markets to work more effectively.
At Vodafone, we believe that through our services we can have a positive impact on people’s lives 
around the world. We therefore have several initiatives in place to ensure that our services are 
increasingly accessible to all people regardless of
their social or economic circumstances.
One of the main barriers to accessing mobile communications has been the cost of the handset. We 
therefore decided to take advantage of our global scale and develop a low-cost handset with Chinese 
manufacturer ZTE. We have produced several Vodafone-only branded handsets that are likely to retail 
from US$25 and make access to mobile communications more affordable.
We are also going further than just handsets. We are now looking at how
to make all elements of our service even more affordable and accessible to all. We have introduced 
lower prepay top-up vouchers to enable people to top up more regularly at lower cost. We have 
provided low-cost communications to hundreds of remote villages in South Africa through our South 
African affiliate, Vodacom. In Kenya, Safaricom (a Vodafone joint venture) has launched M-PESA, a 
mobile payment service that enables customers to transfer money within Kenya by sending 
instructions via SMS text message.

The common theme throughout the development of these services is accessibility. We are driving 
innovation in our products and services to ensure all individuals can realise the full benefits of 
mobility, whether they are rich or poor, living in a developed or developing country.
We hear about the benefits of communications but less about the risks. How do you protect children 
and ensure individual privacy from new services such as social networking and mobile advertising?
We believe that the positive social benefits of our services significantly outweigh the negative. 
Our shareholders, stakeholders, customers and employees expect that we will have the necessary 
safeguards in place to protect users of our services and as a responsible company ? that’s exactly 
what we do.
Social networking allows people to access and share information with others who have similar 
interests. In our view, this brings social benefit by creating communities with common interests 
and that’s why we recently signed partnership agreements with sites such as eBay, Google, MySpace 
and YouTube. These websites are hugely popular with consumers and their success demonstrates the 
value that individuals place on accessing and sharing information.
Mobile advertising services will also bring benefits to our customers. Customers who ‘opt-in’ and 
voluntarily choose to accept advertisements will be offered certain benefits for doing so such as 
free or discounted services. Those customers who do not wish to accept adverts have no obligation 
to do so. We also guarantee that our customers’ privacy will always be protected and their personal 
information will not be released to third parties without prior consent.
I believe our role as a business is to continue bringing customers the services they want and we 
are doing this through our new social networking and advertising partnerships. We recognise that 
when we develop new services, we also need to think about how they impact our customers and that is 
why we proactively put measures in place to protect them from any potential negative consequences.
We aim to find the right balance between protection, which means more control, and freedom of 
expression, which mean less. I believe the right way to strike this balance is to enable our 
customers to make informed choices.
Maintaining customer trust is critical to us and we listen to customer views on an ongoing basis. 
In addition to the access controls for parents and internet filtering that we already provide, we 
will continue to review and adapt our content standard policies to ensure customers can protect 
themselves and their children from inappropriate content and contact while benefiting from access 
to communications opportunities.
Climate change is becoming a major global issue. What is your strategy for dealing with Vodafone’s 
climate impact?
Our carbon intensity is low compared with other sectors. Vodafone is responsible for approximately 
one and a quarter million tonnes of carbon dioxide per year, the equivalent of around 160,000 UK 
households. More than
80% of these emissions are due to our network. We are currently concentrating on reducing the need 
for air conditioning in our base station sites. We also challenged our suppliers to improve the 
energy efficiency of our network equipment and they achieved  a 25% improvement over the year.
By virtue of providing a mobile communications service, I believe that
we help to reduce climate impact. Our networks can be used to manage traffic flows, provide public 
transport information or plan logistics more effectively. They can even be used to switch off the 
lights and heating as you walk out of your house or remotely read electricity meters.
In conclusion, I believe that we will be more successful in achieving our corporate objectives by 
being a responsible business. We are a leading global company and we therefore need to be a leading 
global contributor to the objectives of individuals, businesses, society and the world around us.
We always value your feedback on how we can do better and how we can further improve. I believe 
that by acting on this feedback and by continuing to provide
our services to people around the world, Vodafone will continue to play a valuable and constructive 
role in addressing the defining challenges of our time.

Chief executive
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ Vodafone 2008

Message from the Chief Executive

“At Vodafone, corporate responsibility plays a significant role in helping us
achieve our global strategic objectives. We believe that if you want to achieve
commercial success on a sustainable basis, you need to conduct business in a
responsible way. That’s why our commercial strategies are designed with good
CR practice in mind.”
Corporate Responsibility (CR) is now well accepted in society and it’s rare to find a
business that does not support the principle of responsibility. I believe that designing
corporate strategy in a responsible way is vital for ongoing commercial success and
we therefore integrate CR into our strategy and activities on a daily basis.
Vodafone has a global footprint that spans five continents including Europe, Asia,
the US, Africa and Australasia. This ‘window to the world’ allows us to constantly
learn, innovate and anticipate key business trends. In our sector, we are focused on
numerous opportunities such as emerging markets, mobile internet services and
increased data usage. In each case, aligning the commercial opportunity with our
CR objectives will form an important part of our success. I would like to highlight
how we are practicing this alignment in several areas including rural rollout, the
mobile internet and the management of our climate impact.
Bringing telecommunications and internet access to poor or un-connected
communities in emerging economies, often in rural areas, improves quality of life
and enables participation in economic activity. We invested in these communities as,
from a CR perspective, it was the right thing to do and Governments mandated rural
rollout as part of our license obligations. However, we often invested more than we
were obliged to because we believed these communities also represented
commercial opportunities if we designed and tailored our services specifically to
their needs. Tailoring that meant smaller top up vouchers, innovative distribution
models and the development of low cost handsets. Re-designing many of our
services with these customers in mind was commercially viable and they are now
helping to deliver like for like revenue growth of approximately 50% in India, 30% in
Egypt and 20% in Romania. This is both a commercial and CR win?win.
As a company, growing a business on this scale could potentially have an adverse
impact on the climate. So while serving these communities and generating strong
revenue growth, we must ensure that there is not a detrimental impact to the
environment as a consequence. I believe that we can grow our business while also
contributing more favourably to the environment and, importantly, without imposing
significant costs or constraints on our operations. We recently announced a new
climate change commitment focusing on greener energy and improving our energy
efficiency. My view is that when we can protect the environment and improve our
company’s efficiency, we are supporting the long-term sustainability of the business.
There are several other areas of our business where we believe it’s especially
important to take a responsible approach towards our customer offerings. Mobile
data contributed ?2.2 billion towards our 2007/ 08 annual revenues. As this
segment continues to grow strongly, we ensure that we continue to listen carefully
to what our customers are telling us about their internet experiences. Apart from
their obvious enthusiasm for accessing the internet via their mobile, customers also
want a safe and secure mobile internet experience, particularly for children. Our
customers want to be able to protect their children, control who they interact with in social networks and have assurance over the confidentiality of customer data. We
have invested in several areas of research to develop our understanding of customer
expectations on privacy, mobile advertising and child protection.
We are developing a range of solutions to help our customers define their own
mobile internet experience and I believe that by rolling out a responsible mobile
internet strategy, this will put us at the forefront of customer protection, translating
into greater customer trust and, ultimately, preference for our products.
Businesses must have the foresight and flexibility to adapt quickly to developments
in their global and local market place. With respect to Vodafone, increasing demand
for mobile services in emerging markets, the forces of convergence across the
media, telecommunications and internet industries, and global environmental
concerns, such as climate change, are all significant issues for our business. I believe
that the adoption of CR into our business strategy in these and other areas will
enable us to address these challenges more successfully and on a more sustainable
basis. By doing so, we will be better able to create value for our business, our
customers and our broader stakeholders. Put simply, that is our goal.
I hope you find the CR report useful and informative. Your views are important to us
as we look to continually improve our business and its value to all stakeholders.

Arun Sarin
Chief Executive

----------------------------------------------------------------------------------- supplementary information
“At Vodafone,  corporate responsibility plays a significant role in helping us achieve our global 
strategic objectives. We believe that if you want to achieve commercial success on a sustainable 
basis, you need to conduct business in a responsible way. That’s why our commercial strategies are  designed with good CR practice in mind.”
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Vodafone 2009   

CEO message

Welcome to Vodafone’s 2009 Corporate Responsibility
Report: ‘Mobilising Development’.

Development represents a considerable challenge for society as it contends with
two significant issues: global economic recession and the longer-term issue of
climate change. Both of these issues must be tackled with coordinated, urgent and
focused actions and Vodafone is in a position to make a very positive contribution.
The recession means that we have had to take some hard decisions around the size
and location of our workforce, as we strive constantly for operational excellence.
But we must also continue to innovate across our range of products and services
and manage the extraordinary growth in subscribers that we are experiencing in
emerging markets such as India.
It is clear to see that the spread of mobile communications in developing markets
can transform economies and quality of life. We are also well aware of the challenges
to develop an appropriate CR approach in our emerging market businesses. We
recognise that this may require more time than has been the case elsewhere and
this is certainly true in India where the CR-related performance data are not yet
sufficiently reliable.
Our industry is part of the solution to overcoming the economic crisis and is a key
to delivering growth afterwards. But future economic development must take
account of the stress limits that our natural environment can bear. We must deliver
massive changes in environmental efficiency and I believe communications
services can be a key part of this shift through, for example, travel substitution and
so-called machine-to-machine services which improve business efficiency in a low
carbon way.
We are also particularly focused on addressing issues raised by mobile internet.
Whether these are concerns around the vulnerability of children, the security of
customer data or the privacy implications of location-based services and mobile
advertising; we continue to consult with our stakeholders to find appropriate
solutions and keep customers informed.
We have to manage the current economic situation but we must also look 10, 20,
or even 30 years out and consider the world we may have if we don’t also start
to address sustainability. With the help of our suppliers and other stakeholders,
I am very excited about Vodafone’s potential to leverage our technology, and
our innovative spirit, to help deliver a low carbon economy and to make real
contributions to a more sustainable society.

Vittorio Colao, Vodafone Group Chief Executive

----------------------------------------------------------------------------------- supplementary information

Our industry is part of the
solution to overcoming
the economic crisis.
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ Vodafone 2010

CEO Message

Welcome to Vodafone’s 2010 Sustainability Report

Although the economy is not declining any more in most countries, we still face
significant challenges to deliver a sustainable society in which business and its
stakeholders can prosper in the long term. The lack of a legally binding international
agreement on climate change from talks in Copenhagen and the lack of progress on
some of the most pressing issues facing the billions of people in emerging markets,
underline the urgent need for a cohesive strategy between public and private sector
that meets the needs of society as a whole.
I firmly believe that Vodafone and the sector in which we operate have a key role
to play in shaping a more sustainable society. Our capital investment across the
business ? continued throughout the recession ? means fast, reliable, high quality
networks are becoming ubiquitous, providing a platform to deliver communication
services to all segments of society.
Sustainability challenges are a key stimulus for innovation within the business: within
Vodafone we have established dedicated business units to develop and promote
services that enable more efficient and effective healthcare; access to basic financial
services through mobile payment solutions (already used by over 12 million people in
sub-Saharan Africa); and machine-to-machine applications that can bring substantial
carbon and energy cost savings. The ‘SMS for Life’ m-health project in Tanzania (page
22) is a good example of the impact technology can have.
Many of the benefits our services can bring are very visible in emerging economies.
But it is in these markets that we also face some of the biggest challenges in our
operations due to different working practices and attitudes to risk.
Vodafone has maintained a reasonable record on health and safety over the last
decade, but the expansion in emerging markets and the application of the most
rigorous and demanding tracking methodologies have this year highlighted an
unacceptable level of fatal accidents, mainly in Ghana, India and Turkey ? markets
with a legacy of poor safety practice and infrastructure, and a high rate of road traffic
accidents. In particular, ensuring that our contractors manage health and safety
effectively ? in their own work and that of their sub-contractors ? is a key challenge.
I intervened personally on a number of occasions to reinforce our stance on the
absolute priority of operating safely and protecting Vodafone employees, contractors
and the general public. This Report illustrates how we are working hard to address
the main problems ? for example introducing a Fatality Prevention Plan in Ghana,
India and Turkey, focused on six key initiatives ? and statistics indicate a marked
improvement in the second half of the year (page 46). I believe strongly that we must
be transparent in reporting on this area to raise awareness of these issues ? in our
industry and across all sectors ? and stimulate a change in attitude to safety also in
emerging economies. This is a long-term challenge, but we will not back off.
This report tells the story of how we have tried to address both sides of the
sustainability agenda this year ? managing negative impacts, while pressing forward
to deliver the positive contributions we can make to sustainability.

Vittorio Colao
Vodafone Chief Executive Officer

----------------------------------------------------------------------------------- supplementary information
I firmly believe that
Vodafone and the sector
in which we operate have
a key role to play
in shaping a more
sustainable society.

------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Vodafone 2011

Welcome to Vodafone’s Sustainability report for 2010/11 which sets out our performance and offers insight into some of the sustainability opportunities and  challenges we face in implementing our strategy.

We see significant opportunities for our services in the areas
of health, financial services, agriculture and food distribution,
particularly in the emerging markets which are at the heart of our
strategy for business growth. Vodafone’s mHealth Solutions are
bringing tangible efficiencies to healthcare providers in several
markets and the number of M-Pesa customers doubled to
20 million in 2010/11, with over half a billion dollars transferred
via mobile each month.
In developed markets, our focus is on mobile-enabled services
that support low carbon ways of operating. We are harnessing
opportunities to provide machine-to-machine connections that
enable business customers to improve the efficiency of their
operations and reduce carbon emissions.
We are targeting reductions in our own carbon footprint by
working closely with key suppliers to develop innovative solutions
to improve the energy efficiency of our networks ? bringing
additional cost savings and operational efficiencies.
Last year, I highlighted challenges in
managing health and safety performance,
particularly in some of our emerging markets.
In 2010/11, we have made significant efforts
in embedding a safety first culture, targeting
the root causes of incidents. However, I
am extremely saddened to report that four
employees and 17 contractors lost their lives
in major incidents, including the full-year
reporting on Vodacom. More than half of
these fatalities were as a result of road traffic
accidents in emerging markets, and even if
we can only partially affect driving conditions
in these countries, enforcing road safety rules
with our employees and contractors remains
a key focus.

The role of telecommunications and internet access during civil
unrest has been highlighted by continuing events across North
Africa and the Middle East. In Egypt, operators were required
by the authorities to temporarily shut down mobile networks
in January. Our employees performed admirably in challenging
circumstances, restoring network operations quickly and working
long hours to maintain services for customers. I firmly believe the
approach we adopted in the circumstances was the optimum one
for our employees, customers and the wider population.
The way we deal with these and other challenges is critical to
maintain the trust of our customers and other stakeholders,
without which we cannot deliver our commercial objectives.
I believe transparent reporting is a key aspect of maintaining
trust and highlighting opportunities to address sustainability
challenges. Read on to find out more about our performance
in 2010/11 and how we approach key sustainability issues.

----------------------------------------------------------------------------------- supplementary information
The strategy is founded on our long-standing commitment to behave in a responsible, ethical and honest
way, and to reduce environmental impacts across our value chain. This has enabled us to build credibility
as we engage with partners to help build more sustainable societies.
I believe Vodafone is extremely well positioned to contribute to sustainability in two key areas: by promoting
economic development and enabling a low carbon society. Our products and services can help to
deliver the step change in efficiency needed to achieve these global objectives. At the same
time, our efforts in these areas are generating new revenue streams for the business and
link directly with our strategy to drive growth in data services.

------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Vodafone 2012

Vodafone has a unique opportunity to transform societies by bringing innovative services to the 1.5 billion people covered by our networks worldwide ? 1.1 billion of them in emerging markets.

Our mobile solutions in finance, health and agriculture are already making  a difference to 
people’s lives. In emerging markets, more than 30 million people without bank accounts are 
accessing financial services via our M-Pesa mobile money transfer service; our mHealth solutions 
are helping medical centres across Tanzania and The Gambia make sure they don’t run out of 
essential medicines; and our mobile information service has enabled Turkish farmers to improve 
their productivity by an estimated €100 million.

In mature markets, our solutions are playing an important role in tackling one of the most 
significant global challenges we face ? climate change. Smart working and machine-to-machine (M2M) 
connections offer the biggest potential here by enabling people to live and work more sustainably, 
and businesses to operate more efficiently. At least 6.4 million of the M2M connections
we provide are helping companies cut their costs and carbon
footprint through better energy and fleet management.

Our new vision captures the far-reaching ambition we need
to support sustainable living on a grand scale. It is being
championed by our sustainability teams who will harness
the enthusiasm of our employees around the globe. With the commitment of everyone at Vodafone, I’m 
confident we can bring sustainable living a step closer.

As we focus on sustainable development and transforming lives, we recognise that we must continue 
to operate responsibly and ethically wherever we do business. By doing so, we will maintain the 
trust of our stakeholders, which will be vital to achieve our vision. We are building on our 
longstanding commitment to corporate responsibility ? from keeping our people safe and managing our 
carbon footprint to protecting customers’
privacy ? and on our significant achievements to date.

This document sets out how we are working towards our vision, highlighting some of the key 
opportunities and challenges. I look forward to updating you on our progress next year.
Vittorio Colao
Chief Executive
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------Vodafone 2012-2013

Mobile technology improves livelihoods and changes lives. Wireless communications play an important role in addressing some of society’s most complex challenges, from climate change and food security, to access to healthcare and education.

In our Sustainability Report for 2012-13, we outline Vodafone’s significant social and economic contribution across our 30 operating countries and beyond. 

We help enterprise customers reduce their energy needs, cut carbon emissions and enhance productivity, for example by using our machine-to-machine (M2M) services ? the so-called ‘internet of things’ that connects a wide range of devices to the network ? to optimise fleet management, logistics, distribution and manufacturing processes.

We help millions of consumers manage the increasing complexity of their digital lives, enabling people to work smarter, more flexibly and remotely, enhancing individual quality of life while reducing carbon emissions from travel. 

And we help more than 274 million customers in emerging markets, investing more than ?1.8 billion this year in building the networks and services used for everything from mobile healthcare services in rural clinics, remote learning applications for village schools and crop-price and weather forecasts for farmers, to our very successful M-Pesa mobile money service. Since its launch in 2007, Vodafone’s M-Pesa has transformed the lives of more than 18 million of the poorest people in Africa for whom conventional banking and financial services are not an option.

Mobile technology can have a profound effect on the quality of life of some of the most vulnerable groups in emerging markets. Our partnership with the US Agency for International Development (USAID) and the NGO TechnoServe will use simple mobile technology to help smallholding farmers in Kenya, Mozambique and Tanzania increase yields and secure the best prices for their produce. We’re also working with GSK and the global immunisation organisation the GAVI Alliance to use mobile technology to increase immunisation rates in sub-Saharan Africa, directly reducing childhood mortality rates. 

Mobile technology also offers clear macro-economic benefits for businesses and employees in emerging markets: our Connected Worker research found that increased use of mobile technology could deliver an additional $30 billion productivity gain for companies and a $7.7 billion addition to aggregate employee earnings by 2020. 

At Vodafone, we know we will be judged on how we reach our goals as well as on the commercial and strategic outcomes achieved. Financial results alone are not enough: a commitment to behave ethically and responsibly at all times is integral to ensuring the long-term sustainability of our businesses. 

That commitment takes many forms. It informs our industry leadership role in working with NGOs and peers to define new global principles governing the protection of our customers’ privacy. It underpins our work with suppliers to strengthen measures intended to ensure ethical conduct and employee protection in our supply chain. And it has led to the inclusion of a new chapter in this Report setting out our total economic contribution, on a country-by-country basis, which we hope will provide greater insight and clarity amid the current public debate on corporate taxation.



------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------Vodafone 2013-2014

The beliefs, aspirations and concerns of our diverse stakeholders shape our performance as much as any business decision. Everyone we deal with ? our customers, shareholders, partners, suppliers, employees, elected representatives, regulators, NGOs and the media ? rightly expects everyone at Vodafone to act responsibly and with integrity at all times. Financial results alone are not enough: the societies and communities within which we operate want companies to focus on enhancing lives and livelihoods, not just enhancing returns to their shareholders. Overlooking that expectation would risk undermining our prospects for long-term value creation.

Our core business is founded on a powerful social good: we exist to help more than 430 million customers in more than 27 countries communicate, share, create, learn and grow. The rapid expansion of communications networks is having a profound impact on the way people manage their daily lives. The social consequences are significant: for example, as we explain in a new section in this report, mobile can be enormously empowering for many women in emerging markets. High-speed data networks are also changing how companies and public sector organisations operate, enhancing productivity and effectiveness and in many cases reducing energy needs, therefore helping to address global warming. The report sets out how our technologies enable our customers to reduce their climate change impact, and gives an overview of our continuing efforts to reduce our operational energy consumption and CO2 emissions.

The data revolution is shaping household habits and enterprise strategies in ways that were little more than science fiction a generation ago. However, radical change often leads to complexity, new emerging risks and new kinds of concerns. Foremost amongst the latter is growing public anxiety about access to citizens’ private information by commercial entities and government authorities. As we explain in this report, the protection of our customers’ privacy is one of our highest priorities. We also reflect the public debate arising from allegations regarding government surveillance with the publication of our first Law Enforcement Disclosure report. This illustrates our approach to responding to law enforcement demands across 29 countries, including information about intelligence agency and authority demands on a country-by-country basis, where statistical data can lawfully be disclosed.

Corporate taxation is also an ongoing focus of public debate. Here, too, we have sought to inform discussions by producing a detailed and transparent insight into our views and approach. Our Tax and Total Economic Contribution report ? updated in December 2013 ? provides a detailed overview of our role in funding public finances, including a country-by-country breakdown of cash taxes paid: Vodafone is the first international communications operator to do so. 

These issues ? and others also addressed in this report ? are of interest to a wide range of stakeholders. We are accountable to all of you. We hope this report is informative and we look forward to further discussions over the year ahead.
2001년에서 2003년 보고서는 Annual Reports의 CEO msg를 옮겼음. 
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- BT Group 2001
Chairman’s message

We have seen the continuing rapid spread of communications technologies into every part of everyday life. But it has also been a year of great turbulence for the industry itself. At a time of such profound change, many players, including BT, have not found it easy to stay ahead of the game. 

However, BT’s operating performance during the year has been satisfactory, and in line with expectations. Group turnover rose by 9%, and earnings before interest, taxation, depreciation and amortisation have been maintained at similar levels to last year.


Net debt has risen to an unsustainable ?27.9 billion at 31 March following the acquisitions made during the year. Our first priority is to repay a significant amount of this debt. We have made a good start with the agreed sales of investments in Japan, Spain, Switzerland and Malaysia, which should raise around ?5.5 billion. Further disposals are planned. 

A major part of our plans for the future is our intention to demerge BT Wireless. This will mean that, provided the necessary permissions are received, shareholders will own shares in two strong and separately quoted businesses, both in the FTSE 100 list: BT Wireless and Future BT, which will be a focused European network and retail group concentrating on voice and data services. 
This amounts to nothing less than a structural and financial transformation of BT. I joined BT as Chairman on the basis that I was totally committed to this transformation and would be responsible for leading the Board in overseeing its delivery.

To provide greater financial stability and to help finance this restructuring, we have announced a ?5.9 billion rights issue. Clearly it would not be appropriate to raise this amount of money from shareholders and then immediately recycle some of it back through dividends. We are, therefore, taking the unwelcome but necessary step of halting payments for the 2000/2001 final dividend and also the current year’s interim dividend. Future dividend policy will be decided by the individual listed companies, taking into account their respective capital structures, their cash requirements and the markets in which they operate. 

I would like to pay tribute to Sir Iain Vallance, my predecessor. As successively Director, Chief Executive and Chairman of BT, he played a major role in the development of BT from a nationalised utility into a leading player in the telecommunications industry. 
In conclusion, I recognise that it will require determined and rapid action by BT management to achieve the transformation of the company. We have made a good start, the culture is changing, and I am confident that we can complete the process in the best interests of our shareholders, our customers and our employees.

Sir Christopher Bland Chairman
22 May 2001
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------Supplementary information
The past year has been one that no-one with any involvement in the communications industry will ever forget.

"This amounts to nothing less than a structural and financial transformation of BT."

------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- BT Group 2002

Chairman’s message

Sir Christopher Bland, Chairman, reports on the successful delivery of the action plan outlined a year ago and the company's return to the dividend list...
The last year has been a significant one for BT Group.

Our operating results were satisfactory and we are pleased to propose a final dividend of 2.0 pence per share.

In May 2001, your Board developed an action plan to reduce debt, manage costs and enhance BT's ability to serve its customers even more effectively.

In the year since then, we have delivered on that plan.

In a turbulent market characterised by rising debt levels - a consequence in large part of the high cost of acquiring 3G mobile licences - and cooling sentiment towards the telecommunications sector, we have taken the hard decisions early and are now in a position of relative strength.

Debt was reduced from ?27.9 billion as at 31 March 2001, to ?13.7 billion as at 31 March 2002.

A significant part of this reduction was achieved through the successful completion of the largest rights issue in UK corporate history. Some 1.98 billion new shares were issued, raising ?5.9 billion.
We demerged mmO2, which comprises what used to be BT's wholly-owned mobile assets in the UK and continental Europe.
We unwound Concert, our international joint venture with AT&T, which had come under considerable pressure from the downturn in the global communications sector. Our destiny in this market is once again under our direct control.
We disposed of Yell, our international directories and e-commerce business. We sold our interests in Japan and Spain at a significant profit.
We achieved the sale and leaseback of a large part of our UK property portfolio.
And we made significant changes to your Board of directors, through a series of executive and non-executive appointments, on which shareholders will have the opportunity to vote at the AGM.
I would like to pay tribute to Sir Peter Bonfield, who left the company at the end of January this year. In Peter's six years as Chief Executive, his energy and drive were of enormous value and he played a key role in the restructuring of the company. We wish him well for the future.
The appointment of Ben Verwaayen, former vice chairman of the management board of Lucent Technologies, as your new Chief Executive marks the next stage in your company's evolution. Ben has significant telecommunications experience and a proven track record in driving culture change.
In November 2001, we strengthened the Board with the appointment of Pierre Danon, Chief Executive of BT Retail, Paul Reynolds, Chief Executive of BT Wholesale and Andy Green, Chief Executive of BT Ignite.

The appointment of Ian Livingston, former group finance director of Dixons Group, as Group Finance Director in April 2002 completes the top team.

I would like to thank the non-executive directors, Lord Marshall, Iain Anderson, Helen Alexander, Neville Isdell, June de Moller and Sir John Weston, who retired during the year and welcome Baroness Jay, John Nelson and Carl Symon to the Board.

I would also like to thank Philip Hampton and Colin Green, both of whom left the company recently, for the notable contributions they made as Group Finance Director and Secretary respectively.

As we progress, and while we continue to concentrate on managing the debt and further reducing costs, we are also embarked on the pursuit of profitable growth and customer service excellence.

After a year of relative introspection, we need to show the self-confidence that our assets and strategy justify. We will be entirely focused on finding profitable ways to meet what our customers need, particularly in the "new wave" services arena, in order to enhance shareholder value.

The last couple of years have been tough for our shareholders. I would like to thank you all for your continued support.

They've also been tough for BT employees, who have consistently risen to the challenge.

Looking ahead, I see every reason for optimism.

Sir Christopher Bland
Chairman
21 May 2002
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- BT Group 2003

Chief Executive’s introduction

Making a real difference
Our key financial goals of improving cash flow, increasing earnings per share and reducing debt are critical.
But fundamental to the achievement of these objectives is the underlying strength of BT as a whole. And this can’t always be measured in pound signs.
Indeed our business strength must be based on passion for customers. And here we have been reporting our progress in reducing customer dissatisfaction every quarter.
But fulfilling the complete range of customer expectations requires top performance across a full range of issues ? maximising employee motivation, valuing diversity, acting with integrity, reducing our environmental impacts and behaving in a socially responsible manner.
So it is vital that we keep a good watch on our measures of non-financial performance. These figures really do give an indication of the health of our business.
Our main performance highlights for the 2003 financial year are as follows:
? Customer Dissatisfaction down 37%
? Broadband now available to 67% of all UK households
? People Satisfaction Index steady at 67% despite unprecedented amounts of change
? Increase in the percentage of ethnic minority employees (8.2%) in BT whilst percentage of women (23.8%) and disabled employees (2%) held steady
? Global Warming CO2 emissions now 40% lower than
1996
? Waste to landfill down 1% to 89,878 tonnes with 24%
recycled
? Health & Safety significant incident rate down from
122 to 113 per 10,000 full time employees
? Ethical trading risk assessment questionnaires completed by 31 suppliers and 14 on-site assessments undertaken
? Awareness of our Statement of Business Practice in the UK up 7% to 83%
? Direct community investment of ?8.2 million, plus
?17.9 million in further funding and support in kind, exceeded our 1% of profit target by 50%
To maintain and grow this level of achievement we have set ourselves some stretching targets. Our headline target is to reduce the number of dissatisfied customers by 25 per cent each year.
We are committed to roll out Broadband to over 80% of households by 2004 and aim to make it available to 90% by 2005. Despite this extensive roll out of broadband technologies we are committed to cap our CO2 emissions at no more than 25% below 1996 levels by 2010.
You can find out more throughout our Better World web site (www.bt.com/betterworld), which is also the BT social and environmental report.
This report has been prepared in accordance with the 2002 Global Reporting Initiative Guidelines and is independently verified. It represents a balanced and reasonable presentation of our economic, environmental and social performance. It also sets out our progress implementing the United Nations Global Compact Principles.
It is our strong belief that the application of communications services and solutions can help take the world towards sustainable development. For example, BT’s delivery of flexible working solutions is helping people to improve their work-life balance whilst reducing congestion and pollution.
Today’s emphasis on accountability, transparency and trust is increasing the importance of sustainability reporting. BT is certainly doing its bit. But more than that we aim to make a substantial difference by helping our customers apply communication solutions that create a better, more sustainable world.

Ben Verwaayen
Chief Executive
23 June 2003

------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- BT Group 2004

Your company has continued to make good progress this year ? delivering strong financial results while continuing to transform the business. New wave revenues grew by 30% to ?3,387 million.

Earnings per share, before goodwill amortisation and exceptional items, grew by 19% to 16.9 pence ? almost doubling in two years. While continuing to invest for the future, we generated free cash flow of over ?2 billion and reduced net debt to ?8.4 billion ? a reduction of two thirds on the level of three years ago.

Our business
Your company continues to make progress by innovating in our traditional markets and by growing revenues in all the new wave markets ? ICT (information and communications technology), broadband, mobility and managed services ? in which we operate. We continue to invest where we believe it will make the greatest difference, while achieving rigorous standards of cost efficiency and smarter working practices.

Returns to shareholders
Although long-term shareholder return remains the key measure of our success, our share price performance this year has not been strong. Earnings per share before goodwill amortisation and exceptional items have risen well, but this has yet to be reflected in our share price.
     However, total shareholder return also includes the dividend, and here the news for shareholders is positive.
     We are recommending a full year dividend of 8.5 pence per share. Reflecting BT’s commitment to a progressive dividend policy, the dividend pay out ratio for the 2004 financial year was around 50% of earnings before goodwill amortisation and exceptional items. The full year dividend is 31% up on last year, and over four times higher than two years ago. We are targeting a 60% pay out ratio in 2005/06.
     The strong cash flow generated by the group also enabled us to begin a share buy back programme in the 2004 financial year. This is being funded from cash generated over and above that required to meet our debt target of ?7 billion in 2006/07, after paying dividends and taking into account any acquisitions or disposals.

Regulation
The recently announced strategic review of telecommunications by the UK regulator, Ofcom, is important and welcome to BT.
     The review will cover, within the 21 key strategic questions to be addressed, the possibility of the structural separation of BT. Your company believes this is not in the interests of shareholders, customers or employees, and will argue in favour of a strong and integrated BT.

Wider responsibilities
It is important that companies such as BT live up to their responsibilities in the wider communities in which we operate. I’m proud to report that in the 2004 financial year, we were the highest placed telecommunications company in the Dow Jones Sustainability Index for the third year in a row.
     Our goal is to help everyone benefit from improved communications and to spread the benefits of new technology as widely as possible. This is demonstrated, for example, by our wide deployment of broadband technology throughout the UK, and by the BT Education Programme, which has enabled more than two million young people to participate in a drama-based campaign designed to help them improve their communications skills.

Strategic progress and outlook
The strong growth in new wave turnover, our ICT order book and broadband shows that our strategy is working. We remain committed to that strategy and are confident in our ability to deliver our key strategic goals.
     We’ve come a long way since May 2001, when your Board announced a radical plan to reduce debts, manage costs and improve customer satisfaction. We’ve established a solid platform for future growth and success.
     None of this could have happened without the loyalty and support of our shareholders, customers, suppliers and employees. Given the continued support of all our stakeholders, we will build on this success and accelerate the transformation of our business.

Sir Christopher Bland
Chairman
19 May 2004
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- BT Group 2005

Chairman’s introduction 

Helping our customers to benefit from improved communications and increased connectivity continues to be at the heart of BT.
BT Social and Environmental Report Summary and Highlights 2005 03
Achieving this responsibly and in a way which contributes to society is important to us. This year there have been a number of accomplishments that demonstrate this commitment.

For example, broadband. We are confident that we will connect virtually every UK community during 2005, which is a vital part of the role we play in spreading the benefits of broadband. And we have made real progress with our digital inclusion initiative, Everybodyonline, which is working to help deprived communities enjoy the benefits of broadband technology and develop new skills.

I am particularly proud of our efforts in response to the Asian tsunami which struck on 26 December 2004. Our knowledge and expertise, together with the commitment of our people, enabled us to work alongside the Disasters Emergency Committee to ensure the largest ever volume of online and telephone donations were taken quickly and securely. We also had 16 volunteers who went out to the region to assist in the rebuilding of local and international communication links.

Our Corporate Social Responsibility programme has a key role to play in meeting our stakeholders’ expectations and encouraging them to invest in us, buy from us or work for us. Full details of the programme and our performance in the last year are available in our online Social and Environmental report.

We endeavour to manage our social, ethical and environmental issues to grow shareholder value and I am always pleased when we achieve external recognition for our attempts to do this.

This year we maintained our position as the top telecommunications company in the Dow Jones Sustainability Indexes for the fourth year running, which recognises our work in a wide range of areas from business principles, ethical supply chain management and work?life balance to customer service and corporate governance.

For the year ahead, business transformation is critical to delivering growth to our business. This will bring new challenges for our Corporate Social Responsibility programme, which I am confident it will meet.

Sir Christopher Bland
Chairman
18 May 2005


Chief Executive Message
 
I am convinced that being a responsible company through living our values (trustworthy, helpful, inspiring, straightforward and heart) brings us business advantage.

Our major business and government customers are increasingly concerned about our corporate social responsibility (CSR) performance. Growing stakeholder, legal and regulatory pressures mean our customers expect us to provide the solid CSR credentials that help them provide a trusted service to their own customers.

Our performance
We publish 12 non-financial key performance indicators. These provide a snapshot of our performance on the key measures that underpin our financial performance. Our progress on these measures includes: reducing customer dissatisfaction; connecting the majority of UK communities to broadband; maintaining a motivated, diverse and secure workforce; minimising ethical risks in our supply chain; and massively reducing our carbon dioxide emissions.

The UK is committed to take action on climate change. As one of the country’s largest users of electricity we have a responsibility to help make that happen. This year we became the world’s largest purchaser of green energy and now meet almost all our UK energy needs from environmentally friendly sources.
In carbon dioxide emissions savings it equates to an additional 325,000 tonnes each year on top of the considerable savings we have already made in the last ten years. This is a substantial contribution to tackling climate change.

Accountability ? challenges and opportunities
As we continue transforming our business we must maintain our vigilance on matters of corporate social responsibility. For example, we are increasing our international footprint, through the evolutionary growth of our global services business, by making strategic acquisitions and through the rise in outsourcing and in-sourcing as a key part of BT’s business model. Different approaches to corporate governance and ethical issues in the countries where we operate underline the importance of our CSR activity. In addition, our increasing sales in networked IT services have highlighted the potential privacy implications of the digital networked economy.

The big opportunity is to use ICT products and services to promote sustainability, not only in the way we run our own business, but by helping our customers to benefit too.

You can find details of how we are responding to these challenges and opportunities in our online Social and Environmental report. The report has been prepared in accordance with the 2002 Global Reporting Initiative guidelines and is independently verified. I commend it as a demonstration of how living our values helps us deliver long-term shareholder value.

Ben Verwaayen
Chief Executive
18 May 2005

------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- BT Group 2006

‘Social or Environmental report’ OR ‘Changing World: Sustained Values’ 중에서 어떤 것을 골라야 할지 몰라서, 두개 모두 copy했습니다. 내용은 거의 비슷한 것 같은데,  ‘Changing World’ 보고서가 더 형식과 frame있고 짜임세가 있어서, 이것으로 복사했습니다. 

 ‘Changing World: Sustained Values’

CHAIRMAN’S STATEMENT

Improved communications can help create a better, more sustainable world

BT’S RESPONSIBILITY

BT was created to help people communicate  better.  Over the years technology and innovation has advanced rapidly so that today complex networks allow virtually any form of communication ? words, sounds, graphics, video and information  ? to happen anywhere, anytime to anyone. Never has it been needed more.

BT has always taken its responsibility to society seriously... we are willing to be measured on our commitment.

However, we recognise that we must all do more to tackle the big global  issues we face. We believe that our industry can play a significant role through applying improved communications to these challenges.

OUR STRATEGY

So our strategy is to maintain our current momentum in CSR and  to focus our efforts on the three biggest challenges:
?  the need for sustainable economic growth;
?  the need for wider inclusion of all sections of society;
?  the need to tackle climate change.

The pressures on the world have never been greater with population growth, economic development, climate change and social exclusion all combining to create a potentially unsustainable future, unless things begin to change.
BT has always taken its responsibility to society seriously and, as an original  signatory  to the UN Global Compact, we are willing to be measured on our commitment.  Indeed, BT has been rated No 1 in our sector in the Dow Jones Global Sustainability Index for the last five years.

Our approach is to address these issues internally first with our own technology and to learn from the experience until we can demonstrably prove the case.
We then seek to share the benefits as extensively  as possible with customers, suppliers and the community at large.
This report outlines our progress to date. Any support is welcome and if you would like to get involved contact us through the full online report at www.bt.com/betterworld


Sir Christopher Bland
Chairman
17 May 2006


AN INTERVIEW  WITH BT’S CEO

Making CSR part of the customer experience is common sense

Jonathon Porritt, Founder Director of Forum for the Future and Chairman of BT’s CSR Leadership Panel, spoke with BT’s CEO, Ben Verwaayen for this report. This is an edited extract from their conversation, available as a podcast on www.bt.com/betterworld

JP. Of the many different corporate social responsibility ? CSR ? issues captured in this report, which do you see as the top priority for BT?
BV. We do not do our business and then think “now we must also think about  CSR”. It is embedded in what is common  sense for the company. All the elements of CSR are a natural way of how you want to live, to do business, to be treated and to develop.

JP. Even when cost and competition issues raise their head?
BV. It is a mixture;  it is always a balance. If you are a one-dimensional person and you just look at one aspect of life and are fanatical about it, you measure everything against that one aspect. That is not what we do.
We need to balance in a way that is good for our customers, shareholders, employees, the environment and the world in which we live.
For example, I am not here simply to listen to what shareholders talk about and then run home to do it. We are trying to run a company on a sustainable basis to give a great customer experience. Part of that customer experience is the element that we call CSR.

JP. What is your unique contribution to BT’s leadership on the CSR agenda?
BV. I have a very strong philosophy about leadership. Leaders do only three things: they set the tone; they set the agenda; and they choose the right people.
The tonality  of an organisation is truly important ? it is the value set. How we deal with our customers, our shareholders and our people.
I strongly support what we do on CSR and the results in this report speak for themselves: our work on diversity, our ground-breaking green energy contract, our activities on education and digital inclusion. We are top of our sector in the Dow Jones Sustainability Index for the fifth year in a row? this is encouraging.

JP. As CEO, do you differentiate a particular world view on the CSR agenda  from anything else that you do in the company?
BV. I believe that CSR is truly important as a component of what you are doing. You need to bring it into your DNA, and you need to make it an intuition. I know there is a science to this, but it is also an art. It is head and heart ? but not just head and not just heart.

JP. You mentioned  shareholders earlier.
Do you think they are becoming more interested in CSR?

BV. Shareholders are interested in results. CSR is one important part in achieving the right results. It is an ingredient  of future success. Therefore,  some shareholders  will focus  on CSR and others will not ? but they are all very interested in our success.

----------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Supplementary Information 
“The tonality of an organization is truly important ? it is the value set. How we deal with our customers, our shareholders and our people.”

“We are trying to run a company on a sustainable basis to give a great customer experience.”

“CSR is one important part in achieving the right results. It is an ingredient of future success.”

------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- BT Group 2007

‘Social or Environmental report’ OR ‘Changing World: Sustained Values’ 중에서 어떤 것을 골라야 할지 몰라서, 두개 모두 copy했습니다. 내용은 거의 비슷한 것 같은데,  ‘Changing World’ 보고서가 더 형식과 frame있고 짜임세가 있어서, 이것으로 복사했습니다. 

An interview with BT’s Chairman_The business case for sustainability

JP: If you look back over your time as Chairman, which of the many sustainable development actions by BT are you particularly proud of?
SCB: There are two. We have topped the Dow Jones Sustainability  Index for six successive years among telecommunications companies. That is an external measure of sustainability I am really proud of. The second thing is that we negotiated what was then the world’s biggest green energy contract in 2004 and we have just renewed that until 2010. That was a pioneering act at the time.

JP: Where do you think the sustainable development agenda is going? Some business people see it as having been quite  a steep curve and now plateauing; others think that it is a permanently rising curve in terms of expectation and legislation.
SCB: I think it is a permanently  rising curve in expectation, not necessarily legislation. Certainly, our customers and our staff expect more of the company today than they did
20 years ago. Ten years ago it was not that high up the agenda of most companies ? now everyone knows what you are talking about. Not only that, but I think the days of paying lip service to it are over. Pressure to perform, both internally generated and external, will increase.

JP: Do you think  the BT Board sees this as a rising curve and is constantly thinking  about its own role in the company? Do you think it is always looking  to the next six months, the next year out?
SCB: Yes, I think it is. Sustainable development  is not the only thing that the Board thinks about and it is not on every single agenda, but it is high on its list of priorities.
I think the other thing that is happening is that there is a growing  business imperative  about sustainable development, for two reasons: customers expect it and companies that do not pay attention to what their customers expect will suffer. Secondly, there are business opportunities out there for BT which mean that we can both do good and be profitable. I think our work on teleconferencing is an example of where something that accelerates sustainable development  is also one of our fastest growing businesses. That changes and accelerates the interest of even the most commercially minded of boards.

----------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Supplementary Information 

Jonathon Porrit, Founder Director of Forum for the Future and Chairman of BT’s CSR Leadership Panel, spoke with Sir Christopher Bland for this report. This is an edited extract from their conversation, which is available as a podcast on www.bt.com/betterworld

“Our customers and our staff expect more of the company today than they did 20 years ago.”

“There is a growing business imperative  about sustainable development.”


Chief Executive’s statement_Determined to make a difference

BT is now a global company,  serving customers wherever they are. We source products,  services and expertise world- wide to make sure that we tap into the best practice available anywhere. Encouraging diversity of talent, cultures and ideas is critical to our success. We are accelerating the transformation of our company to become more agile and responsive to customer needs.
Today there is an increased focus on the role of business in society. Stakeholders (including customers, governments and employees) want to know what companies are doing to tackle big global challenges such as climate  change.

I am convinced that we get a business advantage from our hard won reputation on corporate social responsibility. It differentiates us from the competition and reveals new business opportunities, while helping us manage risk and cut costs. We were original signatories to the UN Global Compact and I’m delighted that we have now been No. 1 in our sector of the Dow Jones Sustainability Index for the past six years. In the 2007 financial year, we were named as the world’s leading corporate sustainability reporter in the benchmarking survey by Sustainability, the United Nations Environment Programme and Standard & Poor’s.
We have a dual focus for the future. First, we will build on the foundations of our long- standing commitment to be a responsible business. This includes continuing to make a positive contribution to the communities where we operate through our community investment; prioritising the health and safety of our employees; and ensuring our business activities around the world are conducted with the highest integrity.

Second, we are stepping up our actions to help tackle three pressing global challenges where our industry can make a difference: climate change; promoting a more inclusive society; and enabling sustainable economic growth. As part of my personal commitment to our CSR activities, it is my privilege to lead the Confederation of British Industry’s Task Force on Climate Change, which will report later this year.
We remain determined to make a difference ? globally, locally, personally, corporately. In this way we will create an even better business to bring greater benefits to all our stakeholders and make a contribution to a better world.

Ben Verwaayen
Chief Executive
17 May 2007

----------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Supplementary Information 

Our business is changing. Rapidly. Technology and the information and communications technology (ICT) industry are playing a pivotal role in globalisation, bringing people closer together, providing ever-greater access to information and enabling businesses to operate in radically different ways.

“Today there is an increased focus on the role of business in society. Stakeholders want to know what companies are doing to tackle big global challenges such as climate change.”

“We remain determined to make a difference ? globally, locally, personally, corporately.”

------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- BT Group 2008

‘Social or Environmental report’ OR ‘Changing World: Sustained Values’ 중에서 어떤 것을 골라야 할지 몰라서, 두개 모두 copy했습니다. 내용은 거의 비슷한 것 같은데,  ‘Changing World’ 보고서가 더 형식과 frame있고 짜임세가 있어서, 이것으로 복사했습니다. 


Chairman’s introduction

Continuing the CSR journey

Joining BT as chairman  this year has been hugely exciting. BT is a great  brand involved  in an incredibly important industry, with an inspiring track record of leadership in corporate social responsibility  (CSR). We operate in a highly competitive industry and a fast changing world. Our business has already undergone rapid transformation and global expansion, and we need to continue and even accelerate this process.

Our CSR strategy provides a clear vision for how we can continue this transformation in a way that benefits BT, our customers, society and the environment.
I’m delighted that our progress and commitment  continues to be recognised. This year we were ranked sector leader in the Dow Jones Sustainability  Index for the seventh consecutive year and were named Company of the Year in the Business in the Community Awards for Excellence. But even more pleasing for me is the genuine commitment to our values I’ve seen from people across BT. There is real passion to apply communications to help create a better, more sustainable world.

We have made good progress against our goals. In our own operations we have reduced energy use, increased recycling and announced our intention to develop our own wind farms to generate up to 25% of our UK energy needs.
We are committed to putting our customers first. Excellent customer service is our number one priority.  The launch of our Sustainability Practice will help customers reduce their environmental footprint. Our Inclusive Society programme is spreading the benefits of enhanced communications more widely and our new Inclusive Design Toolkit will encourage more accessible design across the industry. Through our Sustainable Economic Growth programme we have started to truly embed sustainability into our business thinking and product development processes.
We are delighted  that Dame Ellen MacArthur has agreed to be ambassador for our worldwide CSR programme. Our three-year sponsorship of the Offshore Challenges Sailing Team, led by Dame Ellen, will raise awareness of our commitment to CSR among a wider global audience.

Of course we have much more to do. Extending our programmes and successes across our global  business remains  a priority and a challenge. Key to our success will be our ability to attract the most talented people from around the world. Our CSR strategy creates the right work environment to help our employees flourish and build their skills for the 21st century.

We recognise the importance of transparency and accountability. As well as detailing our progress in our Sustainability Report, we are signatories to the UN Global Compact and publish BT’s performance against its principles, which are listed at www.unglobalcompact.org. 

This report is a taster of the activity going on around BT. Each section includes a Q&A with BT leaders to explain how we deal with some of the tensions and synergies that can arise between  our business strategy and our sustainability goals.

We have applied the principles of the Accounting for Sustainability project established by HRH the Prince of Wales to our KPI table this year. This combines financial and non-financial information for the first time, which illustrates the close relationship between the two.
We are trying to get it right in all areas, but have more to learn in some, and a lot of work to do. I welcome your ideas and feedback.

Sir Michael Rake

----------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Supplementary Information 

“Extending our programmes and successes across our global  business remains a priority and a challenge.”


From the chief executive

A global challenge

At BT, we know that responsible behaviour and sustainable development matter to our business, and we are determined to make a positive contribution to society. In this context, there  is no doubt  that  climate  change is one of the most pressing issues now facing the world.  This has become abundantly clear to me while chairing the Confederation of British Industry Climate Change Task Force.

At BT we’ve long recognised this global environmental threat, setting our first reduction target for CO2 emissions in 1992. Since then the problem has become ever more urgent and decisive action is needed.
I am convinced that business has a key role to play, alongside governments and individuals. We have the resources, the talent and the creativity to find the solutions. And if we get it right and invest now, we have everything to gain ? new markets, lower operating costs and stable prosperous societies.
BT and the other Task Force members have agreed challenging targets to help transform the UK into a low-carbon economy. We will step outside our comfort zone and accept greater regulation and costs in some areas. Translating our commitments into reality with the urgency required will be a real test ? and we can’t afford to restrict our efforts to the UK, we must tackle climate change globally.
As this report shows, BT is already well on the way. We have reduced our own footprint in the UK by 58% since 1996 and have set a stretching new target for our global business. We are finding new ways to involve our employees and suppliers in our efforts and offering solutions that empower our customers to make a difference too.
We must continue to deal with climate change in the same way we tackle all business challenges. We need a clear vision of what we want to achieve and a road map for how to get there.
I am truly proud of the progress we have made on this and other CSR issues since I joined  BT in 2002. It’s particularly rewarding that this has taken place alongside our business transformation ? in particular our successful entry into the broadband market and the implementation of our 21st Century Network.  This reflects the hard work and commitment of people throughout BT, and I thank them for all their efforts.
When I step down as chief executive on 14 May 2008 I have every confidence that BT will continue to lead the way as a sustainable business, putting customers at the heart of what we do. My successor, Ian Livingston, has already played a key part in BT’s transformation in his previous roles as finance director and head of BT Retail. I leave the business, our customers and our commitment to society in very capable hands.

Ben Verwaayen

----------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Supplementary Information 

“If we get it right and invest now, we have everything to gain ? new markets, lower operating costs and stable prosperous societies.”

------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- BT Group 2009
‘Social or Environmental report’ OR ‘Changing World: Sustained Values’ 중에서 어떤 것을 골라야 할지 몰라서, 두개 모두 copy했습니다. 내용은 거의 비슷한 것 같은데,  ‘Changing World’ 보고서가 더 형식과 frame있고 짜임세가 있어서, 이것으로 복사했습니다. 

Chairman’s message

BT has a long-standing commitment to responsible and sustainable business practices. We are well positioned to weather the current storm and we are determined to do this in ways that strengthen rather than undermine our values. Our commitment to help create a better, more sustainable world is as strong as ever.
There is much to be proud about this year, as this report demonstrates. From our efforts to create value for our customers and increase access to ICT, to our progress on reducing our environmental impact. Through our global partnership with unICeF we are bringing education, ICT and communication skills to thousands of disadvantaged young people in Brazil, China and South Africa. Our goal is to adopt a global approach across more of our community work ? reflecting our global presence and enabling more BT people around the world to collaborate and contribute.
I am pleased that our efforts were recognised externally too. BT was ranked sector leader in the Dow Jones Sustainability Index for the eighth consecutive year and awarded a prestigious Queen’s Award for Enterprise in the sustainable development category. We have also been awarded the Carbon Trust Standard for our progress on measuring, managing and reducing our carbon footprint.
These awards reflect the hard work, imagination and commitment of people across the business. Their dedication is simply inspirational. I’m delighted that I’m able to personally select the winners of the Chairman’s Awards from hundreds of applications from BT people involved in community activities. I’m also proud of our long-term support for, and our people’s commitment to, fundraising telethons and disaster appeals. Over the next year our new volunteering strategy will help even more of our people get involved in our community work, extending the benefits for BT and our charity partners.
In these uncertain times it is crucial that we help all our people maximise their potential. Initiatives like our apprentice scheme are designed to help achieve just that. young people have a great deal to offer  the economy  and BT is wholly committed to equipping apprentices with the necessary tools to thrive in the innovation age. We are focussed too on helping our people acquire the new skills that will help us meet the changing needs of our customers.
We are committed to improving our reporting and increasing transparency. This year we included our non-financial key performance indicators in our Annual Report for the first time, and will make this review available in six languages. I hope these changes will raise the profile of our work among a wider global audience.
There is more we can do in some areas and I know there will be many challenges in the year ahead. But I am convinced that BT is making the right long-term decisions that will create value for our shareholders, and benefits for society and the environment.

Sir Michael Rake
Chairman

----------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Supplementary Information 

“Over the next year our new volunteering strategy will help even more of our people get involved in our community work, extending the benefits for BT and our charity partners.”


Chief Executive’s statement

This has been a tough year. The economic downturn has affected businesses and individuals worldwide and created an uncertain outlook for the coming months. But we must also look ahead at factors that will be influencing our customers and BT in five and ten years’ time and prepare for those changes now, so that we can emerge from the current recession a stronger company.
Fortunately we don’t have to choose between doing what’s good for our business and what’s right for society and the planet. The solutions to climate change will be complex, but our industry can play a key role. Cost savings and emissions reductions can be achieved by using communications technology to replace physical products and services with virtual equivalents and to help organisations monitor and reduce their energy consumption.
We already have a great range of products and services that help our customers live and work more sustainably, and cut costs: from next generation video-conferencing to our energy efficient home phones. Our sustainability practice is helping businesses use technology to reduce their carbon footprint right across their organisations.
There is a lot more potential in this area and we need to get everyone at BT thinking about it. Our sustainable business programme  will help us do this by embedding environmental and social considerations in our product development processes. As always,  we need to start by understanding what our customers need, and then develop the technology that will help them do this in cheaper, simpler, quicker and greener ways. Our continued broadband infrastructure will give us a real competitive advantage.
This subject isn’t new to BT ? we were thinking about our own carbon footprint long before it became popular or fashionable. For more than a decade we’ve been taking steps to reduce our energy use, to invest in low-carbon energy supplies, and to involve our people and suppliers. This has seen our UK carbon footprint fall by 58% since 1997 and prevented over 27,000 tons of CO2 from being emitted last year.
Now we have the opportunity to share what we’ve learnt with our customers and help them reap the benefits.
Our achievements and ambition should give confidence to our people, customers and shareholders that, even in these difficult times, BT is well prepared for the future.

Ian livingston
Chief Executive

----------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Supplementary Information 
“Fortunately we don’t have to choose between doing what’s good for our business and what’s right for society and the planet.  The solutions to climate change will be complex, but our industry can play a key role.”

“We already have a great range of products and services that help our customers live and work more sustainably, and cut costs: from next generation video-conferencing to our energy efficient home phones.”

------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- BT Group 2010
Remark: 2010부터는 Changing world 제목으로 CSR 보고서가 나오고, ‘Social or Environmental report’는 안 올라와 있네요. 

From Changing world: Sustained values

A message from our Chairman and our Chief Executive

Our society faces huge challenges ? from climate change and resource shortages, to the issues raised by ageing populations, poverty and social and digital exclusion. We believe that business has a key role to play in tackling these challenges. In BT we aim to do this in partnership with our employees, suppliers and customers.

Communications technology can help us all to live and work in more sustainable ways ? at BT we know this from experience. Conferencing services are allowing us to reduce the need for travel. New ways of storing data are helping us reduce cost and energy needs. Access to information where and when we need it is changing the way we work. We are helping customers to enjoy the same benefits, improving efficiency, cutting costs and CO2 emissions.
By using our technology, talents and capabilities, we can help the transition to a low carbon economy and contribute to stable and prosperous societies. We can do this while at the same time taking care of business needs such as reducing our operating costs and opening up new markets. This review highlights just a few examples of the approach we’re taking
The roll out of our super-fast broadband network in the UK is one of the largest programmes in Europe. This will underpin our growth and enable all UK communications providers to develop products and services with economic, social and environmental benefits.
We know that as we grow as a company, we will face challenges with regard to our own energy use. Yet we remain committed to reducing our own global carbon intensity by 80% by 2020, from 1997 levels. In California, the solar array powering our offices and data centre has seen its first full year of operation. In the UK, we have planning permission for the first of our wind farms, part of our plans for the UK’s biggest corporate wind power project outside the energy sector. Our focus on getting things right first time for customers is paying dividends too; by improving our ‘network health’ we have reduced fault rates, repair visits and CO2 emissions from our vehicles.

We are committed to being a sustainable and responsible business. We will support the development, reskilling and redeployment of our people, in both good and bad economic circumstances. We are investing in skills, talent and leadership development to prepare our people for a low carbon world. New tools and training for our product teams will help us bring more sustainable products and services to the market such as the new more energy efficient BT Vision box.

Our new apprenticeship framework will enable over 5,000 employees to acquire new capabilities, and our ‘Work Inspiration’ programme will provide work placements at BT for 3,000 young people. This focus on skills goes beyond formal training ? our people around the globe spent over 28,000 days volunteering in the community last year. Volunteering gives our people the opportunity to make a difference in their local community and build their skills in ways that benefit them, the community and our business.
We are pleased that our progress continues to be recognised externally. For example, through the Business in the Community Corporate Responsibility Index, which awarded us the highest level,
‘Platinum Plus’, for our ongoing achievements and commitment. For the first time in nine years we were not sector leader in the Dow Jones Sustainability Index, but we are pleased to have maintained our top level gold status. We will build on our continued commitment to excellence as we drive forward to embed sustainability as ‘business as usual’. We are signatories to the UN Global Compact.
We have exciting plans for the year ahead and look forward to updating you on our progress in 2011.

Sir Michael Rake                     Ian Livingston
Chairman                                   Chief Executive
12 May 2010

------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- BT Group 2011

A MESSAGE FROM OUR CHAIRMAN
AND OUR CHIEF EXECUTIVE

Our commitment to being a leader in responsible and sustainable business goes beyond a statement of strategic intent and beyond managing our own social and environmental footprint. We’re also passionate about the role that BT can play in helping others to live and work more sustainably through our technology and the skills and expertise of our people. This report is about the actions we are taking and contains examples of our commitment from right around the business.

There are three key broad and interlocking themes in our approach.

First, our significant investment in the UK’s digital infrastructure will improve access to technology at the same time as our community programmes are helping more people get online. Our investment in super-fast broadband will enhance business competitiveness, digital participation and the delivery of public services. We are on track to pass 5 million UK premises by spring 2011 and continue to work in partnership with national and local government and others to make sure that rural and remote communities are included.

We also launched our ‘Get IT Together’ campaign to get at least 100,000 digitally excluded people in the UK online by 2012, and continued to work with partners internationally to help more people benefit from technology around the world. For example in Columbia our people are working with community schools and villages in remote areas, delivering satellite internet access and helping them learn how to use the internet for the first time.

Second, we recognise the essential role that charities play in tackling social and environmental issues, and we want to help them do this more efficiently and effectively.  This year we launched MyDonate, our new free online fundraising service, to help UK charities raise more money online. We also enabled ?34m to be raised for charity through our support for telethons and disaster appeals. BT people provided over 49,000 days of volunteering activity in the community, the value of which we estimate at ?13.8m.

Third, climate change remains one of the most pressing sustainability challenges. We are fully committed to reducing the environmental impacts of our products and services and to bringing to market new low carbon solutions that help our customers to reduce energy use and CO2 emissions. Examples this year include our Green Branch service in Spain, which enables banking clients to monitor and reduce power consumption in their branches by up to 30%, and our SmartReach consortium, offering a plan to accelerate Great Britain’s smart meter programme. Of course we continue to tackle our own use of resources too and we’re pleased to report a 2.5% reduction in energy use this year and planning approval for the first BT wind farm, allowing us to generate our own clean electricity. Our new climate change procurement standard, one of the first in the UK, is gaining recognition as being a major step forward in encouraging suppliers to use energy efficiently.

We are excited too, to be both the communications services provider and a sustainability partner for the London 2012 Olympic and Paralympic Games. We have integrated sustainability into the design of our communications solution for the Games from the beginning. For example, rather than installing separate networks for voice and data traffic, BT is delivering both more efficiently through a single converged communications infrastructure ? the first of its kind for a summer Olympic Games. We are also using the momentum of the Games to help young people develop their communication skills through our ‘Get Set’ London 2012 educational programme.

This is our tenth annual report on BT’s social  and environmental performance. We have made considerable progress over the last decade ? from reducing our carbon footprint by 53%, to bringing copper broadband to 99% of UK premises, investing over ?200m in community and environmental activities and developing challenging supply chain standards. And we are confident we can achieve even more in the next decade and beyond.

We are pleased that our efforts are recognised. We maintained gold sector status in the Dow Jones Sustainability Index and Platinum Plus level in the Business in the Community Corporate Responsibility Index. We were sector leader in the FTSE4Good ESG Ratings, achieved joint first place in the Carbon Disclosure Project’s Leadership Index and won the World Communications Awards Green Award and the CSR Procurement Leaders Award.

We have the skills, ideas and passion of BT employees to thank for these achievements ? and we will need to continue to draw on their insights and expertise to tackle the challenges that lie ahead.

Sir Michael Rake
Chairman

Ian Livingston
Chief Executive


